President Barack Obama waded into two of the highest-profile campaigns ahead of the Nov. 2 elections , urging support for veteran California Democrats who face challenges from wealthy Republican businesswomen .
He 's expecting a double dose of cheer on Friday when he headlines a pair of rallies to boost two high-profile Democrats in tossup races : California Sen. Barbara Boxer and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada .
`` We are excited about these last 10 days '' before the Nov. 2 election , Obama said Thursday night .
Democrats hope Obama will give a boost to Boxer in a race that 's crucial to the party 's hopes for keeping control of the Senate .
Democratic prospects in the Senate are better than in the House of Representatives , where Republicans are favored to win a majority .
At every stop , Obama is reminding audiences of the passion they felt in 2008 when they helped elect him and is urging them to keep the feeling alive amid the weight of the worst economic downturn in a generation .
But the task of turning out voters is harder this time around .
Turnout typically is lower in non-presidential election years , and the party in control of the White House traditionally loses seats in Congress in the off years .
Obama is trying to energize Democratic voters against Republicans , who have been boosted by the ultraconservative tea party movement and are seen as far more enthusiastic about voting .
At stake are all 435 seats in the House of Representatives and 37 of 100 places in the Senate .
Thirty-seven state governorships also are in play .
Republicans are forecast to easily retake control of the House , diminish or even erase the Democrat majority in the Senate and capture a majority of the races to fill governors ' mansions .
More Republicans could translate into scant progress on the to-do list for the second half of Obama 's presidency .
In California , a recent poll showed Sen. Boxer 's lead narrowing over Republican Carly Fiorina , a former Hewlett Packard CEO .
In the gubernatorial race , Democrat Jerry Brown -- a former governor and the current attorney general -- is leading Republican Meg Whitman , a former chief executive of eBay .
California , the most populous U.S. state , tends to vote Democratic , though the outgoing governor , former actor Arnold Schwarzenegger , is a Republican .
In Nevada , Sen. Reid is a top Republican target competing in the most closely watched Senate matchup this year .
Reid helped push Obama 's economic recovery , health care and financial regulation bills through the Senate as majority leader but he 's paying the price as a result .
