Forty-four percent of American voters think President Obama deserves to be re-elected , while slightly more , 48 percent think the country would be better off with someone else , according to a Fox News poll released Thursday .
In December , when the Fox poll last asked that question , 35 percent of voters said he deserved to win re-election , while a 53 percent majority disagreed .
The bump in Obama s re-elect number comes mainly from Democrats : 78 percent think he deserves re-election now compared to 67 percent who thought so in December .
About one in six Democrats think the country would be better off with someone else as president .
Most Republicans and half of independents don t think Obama deserves re-election .
Click here for complete poll results .
President Obama announced his 2012 re-election campaign Monday , in the middle of when the Fox News poll was being conducted .
At 44 percent , the president s re-elect number is slightly higher than the number of voters who approve of how he s handling the economy , job creation , and Libya .
All in all , 49 percent of voters approve of President Obama s job performance and 47 percent disapprove .
Last month , 49 percent approved and 44 percent disapproved .
A majority of voters -- 56 percent -- believes Obama enjoys being president .
One-third believes instead that Obama s frustrated a lot of the time .
In a fairly rare instance of partisan agreement these days , majorities of Democrats , Republicans and half of independents agree that Obama likes his job .
In addition , while 49 percent of Democrats are looking forward to the 2012 presidential campaign , over half of Republicans and independents are dreading it .
Potential GOP 2012 ContendersOne thing that could be helping the president s re-elect number and dampening Republican enthusiasm for the 2012 campaign is not only the absence of a specific opponent , but also the disappointment in potential prospects .
Half of Republicans and over half of conservatives say they are unimpressed with the Republicans who have expressed an interest in challenging Obama .
More than seven in 10 independents also say they are not impressed with possible Republican challengers .
Among political groups , the Tea Party is the only group with more people impressed than unimpressed with the list of potential 2012 Republican contenders .
When Republican voters are read a list of potential candidates for the 2012 nomination , former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee and former Mass. .
Gov. Mitt Romney are the top two choices .
