President Obama and Democrats have proposed a $ 250 rebate to seniors who are not getting a cost-of-living increase in their Social Security benefits for the second year in a row , but critics are suggesting the promised pay-out is merely intended to sway the senior vote -- and likely wo n't even succeed in that , with the midterm election two weeks away .
Polls suggest the Social Security work-around wo n't have much political impact on seniors who are poised to turn out in record levels on Nov. 2 and are likely to pull the lever for the Republican candidate -- an advantage that could propel the GOP into power in the House and possibly the Senate .
The proposal comes as more than 200 Democratic candidates urge Obama to reject any proposed cuts to Social Security benefits from his fiscal commission , which has said everything , including entitlements , are on the table .
Critics dismiss the efforts as a cheap stunt .
`` I think the Democratic Party 's standing between now and November is past the point of rescue with seniors , '' Glen Bolger , a GOP pollster , told FoxNews.com .
But Democratic pollster Mark Mellman said the proposal ca n't hurt .
`` It 's hard to say that any policy makes the difference , '' he said .
`` But it does underline differences between Republicans and Democrats on Social Security and Social Security can make a real difference in seniors ' voting decisions .
`` Democratic pollster Guy Molyneux said seniors will have a `` positive reaction '' to candidates who support the proposal .
`` Whether it will move their votes , I really do n't know , '' he said .
Obama 's 18-member bipartisan deficit commission is expected to unveil a set of proposals for cutting the deficit in December .
The two leaders of the panel have warned that Social Security is careening toward bankruptcy and have indicated that every option is on the table .
That could mean proposals to cut future benefits or increase payroll taxes .
Several Republican candidates on the campaign trail have warned that workers under age 55 should prepare to face changes in the way Social Security calculates retirement .
But more than 200 Democrats , including 81 House candidates , 11 Senate candidates and 133 congressional incumbents , have signed a petition circulated by the Progressive Change Campaign Committee to protect the status quo of the program .
`` Social Security is a promise that must not be broken , '' the pledge reads in part .
`` We need to strengthen Social Security , not cut it .
`` Members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus also wrote to Obama last month opposing any cuts to Social Security benefits , including raising the retirement age .
