The path to the presidency begins in Iowa but for the 2012 GOP candidates who fail to attract the support of the state 's most influential groups and political operatives , the journey could very well end there .
These groups , known as `` tribes , '' are intimately familiar with the ins and outs of the caucuses that launch the presidential nominating process and offer candidates infrastructure , credibility and institutional knowledge .
`` They were the Tea Party before there was a Tea Party , '' said Steffen Schmidt , a professor of political science at Iowa State University who has studied the Iowa caucuses for 40 years .
`` They 're very powerful and important because they have a huge amount of visibility , '' he said , adding that these groups often set the themes for the elections , whether it 's social or economic issues .
Among the biggest tribal leaders are Ed Failor Jr. , president of Iowans for Tax Relief , who supported John McCain in the last presidential cycle ; Bob Vander Plaats , head of The Family Leader , and veteran operative Doug Gross who supported Mitt Romney 's candidacy in 2008 .
While Sarah Palin supporters try to game out a strategy for the state , five other potential candidates former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty , Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann , former Sen. Rick Santorum , former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and radio host Herman Cain -- have already lined up for a lecture series organized by Vander Plaats , whose support is considered key in any Iowa bid .
In 2008 , Plaats backed Mike Huckabee , who won the Iowa GOP caucuses and went on to finish second in the Republican primaries behind John McCain .
Huckabee is now leading Iowa GOP public polling ahead of 2012 .
Schmidt said these groups are even more powerful now after the Supreme Court ruling in the Citizens United case that opened the door for unlimited spending by corporations , unions and other interest groups on election ads .
`` Those groups are very effective and especially now they can raise virtually unlimited money , it makes them even more effective and more substantial players , so leaders in the Republican Party have to pay attention to them , '' he said .
Vander Plaats in particular , he said , has been energized by his campaign to oust three Iowa Supreme Court justices in the November midterms after they ruled in 2009 to allow same-sex couples to marry .
`` Vander Plaats is the sniper who keeps the party very alert , especially on social issues , '' Schmidt said .
`` He 's never gotten elected to anything but he has a loud voice .
`` While Vander Plaats focuses on social causes , Failor is known for highlighting fiscal issues .
