President Obama 's jobs and deficit-reduction proposals might be a tough sell in Congress .
But the president is getting mileage out of them all the same , increasingly using them on the stump to drum up campaign cash ahead of a key filing deadline at the end of the month .
The president 's frantic fundraising schedule this week reflects a reality he 's downplayed for the past several weeks .
After introducing his jobs plan this month , he stressed that the country ca n't wait until the next presidential election to act on the economy .
But presidential politics overhangs the entire debate -- and the president 's economic proposals have fit snugly into his campaign pitch .
Obama told a crowd in San Jose , Calif. , Sunday night that the next election will be a `` contest of values . ''
Later talking up his deficit-reduction plan , he described it as `` common sense , '' not class warfare .
`` We have to remind ourselves the reason we 're successful is because somebody made an investment in us , '' he said .
`` We did n't do all of this on our own . ''
At an earlier fundraiser in Seattle , Obama pressed Republicans to help pass his latest economic plan , saying it 's a choice between his approach or the nation going back to the `` same ideas the other side is peddling -- old , worn-out ideas from last decade '' that gave the upper hand to the wealthiest corporations and individuals .
By the end of the day Monday , Obama will have attended at least nine fundraisers and political events since delivering his jobs plan overview to Congress Sept. 8 .
The stops come ahead of the Sept. 30 filing deadline for campaigns .
Democratic officials are looking to raise about $ 8 million from the first two days ' events alone .
In Seattle on Sunday , tickets for a brunch with the president were going for nearly $ 36,000 a couple .
Tickets to a fundraising dinner Sunday night at the home of a Facebook executive went for the same amount .
Obama has also made several non-campaign visits in recent weeks to vital swing states , including Ohio , Virginia and North Carolina .
The president is taking his case to the public , and to donors , as he faces a reluctant Congress .
After pitching a $ 447 billion jobs bill , he proposed paying for it with tax increases .
Then he lumped those proposals in with a total of $ 1.5 trillion in proposed tax hikes as part of a 10-year deficit reduction proposal he submitted to the bipartisan deficit-reduction committee in Congress .
He was met with a chorus of criticism from Republican leaders who accused the president of playing `` class warfare '' by proposing more taxes on the wealthy .
