The two titans of the Republican presidential contest hammered each other over job creation and Social Security on Wednesday night , as Rick Perry got his first chance to articulate his campaign message on the national debate stage .
The Texas governor sparred early and often with former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney , whom he has overtaken as front-runner since joining the race a month ago .
With Perry trying to defend that position and Romney trying to reclaim it , the two came armed with zingers to take each other down a peg .
`` Michael Dukakis created jobs three times faster than you did , Mitt , Perry quipped , in a stinging reference to the former Massachusetts governor who lost the presidential election to George H.W. Bush .
Romney immediately shot back that George Bush and his predecessors created jobs at a faster rate than you did .
The critiques were among multiple rapid-fire exchanges between the two candidates , who shared the stage with six other White House hopefuls at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley , Calif. , a symbolic setting that invoked the memory of the conservative Republican who swept to two terms as president .
The debate also marked a key test for Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann , whose prospects rose last month with her win in the Iowa Straw Poll only to be overshadowed by Perry 's entrance into the race .
None of the GOP contenders had anything positive to say about Obama , either his record on creating jobs or the health care law they have vowed to repeal if they win the White House .
Bachmann said she would provide the `` strong , bold leader in the presidency who will lead that effort .
None of us should ever think that the repeal bill will just come to our desk , '' she said in a pledge that drew applause from the audience .
Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich resisted an effort to draw him into conflict with other Republicans on stage .
`` I 'm frankly not interested in your efforts to get Republicans fighting each other , '' he said , sparking an even louder round of applause .
He said all Republicans should `` defeat efforts by the news media '' to spark an internal struggle when the real objective is to defeat Obama in 2012 .
But moments later , businessman Herman Cain said that after trying to defeat Democratic efforts to create national health care , `` I 'm running against Romneycare , '' the legislation that passed requiring residents of Massachusetts to purchase coverage .
