Sen. Lisa Murkowski's bid to become only the second person to win a write-in campaign for U.S. Senate appeared on track in Alaska early Wednesday, with write-in candidates leading a Tea Party-backed Republican who beat her in a primary. But even if the write-ins remained ahead of Republican nominee Joe Miller and Democratic candidate Scott McAdams, the outcome of Alaska's Tuesday general election apparently wouldn't be known for days, because officials need to determine which write-in votes actually went to Murkowski. "We are in the process of making history," Murkowski, who is seeking a second full term, said early Wednesday. Although Murkowski told supporters in Anchorage, Alaska, late Tuesday that the outcome wasn't yet known, she was clearly optimistic about her chances. "They said you can't do it, [that] you can't win a write-in campaign, not in Alaska, not anywhere. They said we can't do it," Murkowski said. "Do they know Alaska?." With 73 percent of precincts reporting, write-in candidates as a group had 40 percent of the vote, with Miller collecting 35 percent and McAdams 24 percent, according to an unofficial count from The Associated Press. Alaska had dozens of eligible write-in candidates. Officials didn't plan to read the write-in votes until November 18, in part because they need to wait for mail-in votes, according to the state's election division. With a victory, Murkowski would avenge her August primary loss to Miller in the latest chapter of a feud between her and his main backers, including the Tea Party Express and former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin.  She told CNN Wednesday morning that, although she wasn't her party's nominee, she intended to caucus with Republicans should she win. "This is about a can-do people," Murkowski told her supporters late Tuesday. "When they tell us we can't do something, what do we do?. We stand up just a little bit straighter, just a little bit taller, and we take it on." "We're doing it for Alaska, for our kids, for our families, for the people in this state, because this is the right thing to do," she added.  The Tea Party Express, a national Tea Party organization based in Sacramento, California, endorsed Miller earlier this summer and spent nearly $600,000 during the primary campaign to help him defeat Murkowski.  The primary race was so close, with Miller eventually garnering 51 percent, that Murkowski didn't concede until a week after the vote, while absentee ballots were still being counted. She announced a write-in candidacy in September.
