The 2012 presidential race gained momentum this week as potential Republican challengers began announcing their candidacies, making the election a major topic of conversation on the Sunday talk shows.Newt Gingrich, former Republican congressman from Georgia and speaker of the House, will appear on NBC’s “Meet the Press” and Univision’s “Al Punto” to talk about the campaign now that he’s thrown his hat in the ring.“Fox News Sunday” lands the first interview with former Gov. Mike Huckabee after his Saturday announcement that he would not run for president. Also on the show is Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, who announced his candidacy on Friday.The budget continues to be on people’s minds as the battle over the debt ceiling heats up, and Fox has each party’s second-in-command in the Senate — Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona and minority whip, and Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois and majority whip — on hand to weigh in on the debate.Mr. Durbin also appears on Univision, talking about his co-sponsorship of last year’s immigration legislation known as the Dream Act. And President Felipe Calderón of Mexico joins Univision to address the country’s relationship with the United States.U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder gives an interview about the intelligence gathered from the raid on Osama bin Laden’s Pakistani compound, among other subjects.Gov. Nikki Haley, Republican of South Carolina, shares her thoughts about the upcoming presidential race and the ongoing spending battle in Congress on ABC’s “This Week.”The speaker of the House, John A. Boehner, appears on CBS’s “Face the Nation” to share his plan to address the debt limit. Also focusing on the budget, CNN’s “State of the Union” features Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, and Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee.Then Joe Lockhart, who served as senior adviser on Senator John Kerry’s presidential campaign and White House press secretary during the Clinton administration, joins Michael Gerson, a speechwriter and policy adviser under the George W. Bush administration, to talk about the 2012 race on CNN. And retired Adm. Dennis Blair and Ambassador John Negroponte, both of whom once served as director of National Intelligence, discuss the continuing unrest in the Middle East.Next week, Congress will vote on a bill that would repeal lucrative taxpayer subsidies for oil and gas companies. To discuss the vote, C-Span’s “Newsmakers” features Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico.And Bishop T.D. Jakes, senior pastor of the Dallas-based mega-church Potter’s House and producer of the film “Jumping the Broom,” joins TV One’s “Washington Watch” to talk about the role of faith and politics in black marriage and family.