In a pep talk to the nation's students as they settle back into school, President Obama will tell them that nothing is beyond their reach as long as they're willing to dream big, work hard and stay focused on learning.Obama will deliver that message Tuesday during his second back-to-school address, this time from a Philadelphia school."Nobody gets to write your destiny but you," Obama says in the speech, which the White House released a day early so people could read the president's remarks beforehand and judge the contents for themselves."Your future is in your hands. Your life is what you make of it. And nothing -- absolutely nothing -- is beyond your reach. So long as you're willing to dream big. So long as you're willing to work hard. So long as you're willing to stay focused on your education," he says.After the White House announced last year's speech, some conservatives accused the president of trying to foist a political agenda on children. Some parents said they'd pull their children from class to keep them from hearing Obama's remarks.But that type of outcry is largely missing this year.In both speeches, Obama urged students to stay in school, study hard and take responsibility for their education. He also tried to motivate students by using his earlier-in-life slacking off as an example.For the Tuesday speech, Obama says nothing will affect students' success in life as much as their education."The kinds of opportunities that are open to you will be determined by how far you go in school," he says. "In other words, the farther you go in school, the farther you'll go in life."Obama, who was raised by a single mother who often rose before dawn to tutor him before work and school, said government, educators and parents have a responsibility to prepare students for classroom success. But students have responsibilities, too, he said."Here's your job. Showing up to school on time. Paying attention in class. Doing your homework. Studying for exams. Staying out of trouble," Obama said. "That kind of discipline and drive -- the kind of hard work -- is absolutely essential for success."Obama says he knows that is true because he didn't always have the drive.He recalls a conversation with his mother about his slipping grades, how he hadn't started filling out college applications and how he was being "casual" about his future. As he started to tell his mother he didn't need to hear that from her, Obama says she cut him off, gave him a hard stare and asked if he remembered what it was like to put in a little effort.Obama says it was jolting to hear that from his mother."But eventually, her words had their intended effect," he says.
