Courting help from Asian powers, President Obama on Saturday sought to improve the beleaguered American jobs outlook with an eye toward next year's election and contain deepening nuclear worries over Iran on a day of heavy diplomacy. On the sidelines of an Asia-Pacific economic summit, Obama was to meet with Chinese President Hu Jintao, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda. The timing for Obama is significant, particularly with Russia and China, as the United States tries to increase world pressure on Iran amid a fresh U.N. atomic agency report that Iran is working secretly on a nuclear weapon. Obama is the host of the APEC gathering, a non-binding forum that draws 21 nations from across a vast Asia-Pacific region -- one that the U.S. president sees as vital toward expanding American trade and creating jobs. Obama chose to host the event in his home state of Hawaii to underscore his ties and economic commitment to the Pacific region, although security threats may well dominate his private meetings. The president on Saturday, as expected, announced the broad outlines of an agreement to create a trans-Pacific trade zone encompassing the United States and eight nations. He said details must still be worked out, but added: `I'm confident we can get this done." He called the agreement a model for the Asia-Pacific region and for other trade pacts. Seated with the leaders of the eight other nations, Obama said the trade zone would increase U.S. exports and help create jobs, a top priority. He said the U.S. is committed to shaping the future security and prosperity of what he called the "fastest growing region in the world." The eight countries joining the U.S. in the so-called Trans-Pacific Partnership would be Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. That pact and its potential payoff for U.S. jobs and business will allow Obama to cast his far-flung travels as crucial to American voters with an election year approaching and concerns of domestic voters centered on the dragging economy. Obama also was to meet with U.S. business leaders Saturday to highlight the importance for interests back home of the Asia-Pacific region. "The trade that the U.S. does with the Asia Pacific supports millions of American jobs," Ben Rhodes, a White House deputy national security adviser, said ahead of Obama's trip, laying out a theme certain to be heard from Obama's advisers until the president returns to Washington Nov. 20. "The markets that are growing in the Asia Pacific are ones that we want to be competitive in going forward." Japan's interest in joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership will be a central topic for Obama and Noda. 
