President Obama declared late Sunday night in a written statement that Libya is "slipping from the grasp of a tyrant" as it appeared that rebels in the streets of Tripoli were edging closer to bouncing dictator Moammar Qaddafi from power."Tonight, the momentum against the Qadhafi regime has reached a tipping point," Obama said. "Tripoli is slipping from the grasp of a tyrant. The Qadhafi regime is showing signs of collapsing. The people of Libya are showing that the universal pursuit of dignity and freedom is far stronger than the iron fist of a dictator."The statement came shortly after Obama convened a 9:00 p.m. time secure conference call about the situation in Libya with senior members of his national security team. "The president asked that he continue to be updated as neccesary and is scheduled to be briefed on this topic ," said White House spokesman Josh Earnest.Participants in the secure call included defense secretary Leon Panetta, Joint Chiefs Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen, White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley, and several other top officials.At the end of a day in which rumors were running rampant about Qaddafi's fate, Obama's statement made clear that the U.S. believes that the dictator is still in power -- at least for now."The surest way for the bloodshed to end is simple: Moammar Qadhafi and his regime need to recognize that their rule has come to an end. Qadhafi needs to acknowledge the reality that he no longer controls Libya," Obama said in a written statement. "He needs to relinquish power once and for all. Meanwhile, the United States has recognized the Transitional National Council as the legitimate governing authority in Libya. At this pivotal and historic time, the TNC  should continue to demonstrate the leadership that is necessary to steer the country through a transition by respecting the rights of the people of Libya, avoiding civilian casualties, protecting the institutions of the Libyan state, and pursuing a transition to democracy that is just and inclusive for all of the people of Libya. A season of conflict must lead to one of peace."Obama's statement also suggested the U.S. has concerns about what a post-Qaddafi Libya will look like, amid chaos on the streets of Tripoli."The future of Libya is now in the hands of the Libyan people. Going forward, the United States will continue to stay in close coordination with the TNC," Obama said of the rebels. "We will continue to insist that the basic rights of the Libyan people are respected. And we will continue to work with our allies and partners in the international community to protect the people of Libya, and to support a peaceful transition to democracy.
