President Obama, after watching the deficit Super Committee collapse under the weight of partisan discord, on Tuesday urged Congress to prevent that failure from resulting in a payroll tax increase at the end of the year. Some on the so-called Super Committee were hoping to include the payroll tax extension, along with an extension of unemployment aid, in a final agreement to cut the deficit by $1.2 trillion. The provision, passed last year, was one of Obama's signature policies and something he has pushed for as part of a larger jobs package that has yet to attract widespread support in Congress. Without a deficit deal, the future of the cut and numerous other provisions is unclear. Obama, on a visit to Manchester, N.H., warned that taxes would go up by about $1,000 for the average family if Congress does not act. "This payroll tax is set to expire at the end of next month.  If we allow that to happen, if Congress refuses to act, then middle-class families are going to get hit with a tax increase at the worst possible time," Obama said. "We can't let that happen, not right now." Obama wants to extend the payroll tax cut -- and then expand it to cut taxes by another $500 for the average working family. He said a vote on the measure is coming up next week in the Senate. House Speaker John Boehner said in a written statement Tuesday afternoon that Republicans are ready to discuss the payroll provision. "We told the president in September that we stand ready to have an honest and fruitful discussion with him regarding the payroll tax extension, and that invitation stands," Boehner said, while urging Obama to get behind other Republican-authored jobs bills which have passed in his chamber. But without a deficit-cutting deal, it's unclear how the government would pay for the payroll tax cuts, which would eat away at the Social Security coffers. And ahead of his visit Tuesday to New Hampshire, home of the first-in-the-nation primary, the former New England governor who wants to challenge Obama in 2012 effectively blamed the president's policies for suffocating business in the first place. "Your policies have failed," former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney wrote in a letter running in three New Hampshire newspapers. "Far from bringing the crisis to an end, your policies have actively hindered economic recovery." The president's trip comes one day after the official collapse of the special congressional deficit-reduction panel, which failed to reach a deal on $1.2 trillion in cuts. Making the payroll tax cut the top post-Super Committee priority, the White House says a middle-class family making $50,000 a year would see its taxes rise by $1,000 if the payroll tax cuts are not extended. Republicans aren't wholly opposed to the extension.
