President Obama on Saturday sought to clarify his comments supporting the building of a mosque near Ground Zero that have ignited a political firestorm ahead of a difficult election season for Democrats.During a trip to Florida for a family vacation, Obama said his comments from Friday night were only directed at the constitutional right of the mosque to be there, and whether preventing the mosque's construction impinges on the right to freedom of religion."I was not commenting and I will not comment on the wisdom of making the decision to put a mosque there," he said in response to a reporter's question after he spoke about efforts to aid the Gulf Coast region. "I was commenting very specifically on the right people have that dates back to our founding. That's what our country is about."Obama came under instant fire after jumping into the middle of a cultural clash Friday night during an Iftar dinner to celebrate the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. White House spokesman Bill Burton released the following statement on behalf of Obama's stance on constructing the mosque."Just to be clear, the president is not backing off in any way from the comments he made last night. It is not his role as president to pass judgment on every local project. But it is his responsibility to stand up for the constitutional principle of religious freedom and equal treatment for all Americans. What he said last night, and reaffirmed today, is that If a church, a synagogue or a Hindu temple can be built on a site, you simply cannot deny that right to those who want to build a mosque."Republicans and some victims’ advocates have strongly condemned Obama's support for the mosque, which would be part of a $100 million Islamic community center two blocks from where nearly 3,000 people perished when hijacked jetliners slammed into the World Trade Center towers on Sept. 11, 2001.While no one has voiced opposition to the construction of the mosque, critics are concerned that the center's proposed location is insensitive to those affected by the terror attacks."I oppose the planned location of a mosque in close proximity to Ground Zero," Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said in a statement released Saturday. "The concerns of the 9/11 victims’ families and the citizens of New York City should be respected."McCain added that hoped that the parties involved would be able to "sit down and discuss an alternative location for the mosque that would meet with the approval of" New Yorkers and the victims of the terror attacks."Barack Obama has abandoned America at the place where America's heart was broken nine years ago, and where her true values were on display for all to see," said Debra Burlingame, a spokeswoman for some Sept. 11 victims' families and the sister of one of the pilots killed in the attacks.
