7:21 p.m. | Updated CHICAGO – Here is an invitation the White House would surely rather never arrive: Lawyers for Rod R. Blagojevich, the indicted former governor of Illinois, want to subpoena President Obama to testify at Mr. Blagojevich’s corruption trial, set to start in June.In their motion filed Thursday asking a judge to issue a subpoena, the lawyers argue that President Obama, alone, can provide insight into a central accusation against the former governor – namely, that he tried to get money or a high-paying job in exchange for making an appointment to the United States Senate seat Mr. Obama left when he was elected president.President Obama has never been accused of wrongdoing in Mr. Blagojevich’s problem. Still, the thought of being a star witness in a case that mortified his home state and his fellow Democrats and reminded the nation of everything they had already suspected about Chicago politics could hardly hold much appeal.Besides, in the defense filing calling for Mr. Obama’s testimony, they seem to paint him as more tangled in the discussions over who would fill his senate seat that has previously been suggested.Bill Burton, a White House spokesman, said “the White House is not going to comment on an ongoing criminal investigation.”A spokesman for the federal prosecutor’s office in Chicago declined comment on the request, which is likely to be considered by a federal judge here later this month.It would be unusual, legal experts here said, for Mr. Obama to be called  in this case. But presidents have certainly been subpoenaed for information or testimony before. Thomas Jefferson was ordered to comply with a subpoena. President Gerald R. Ford provided a videotaped deposition in the trial of a woman who tried to assassinate him. And, as Mr. Blagojevich’s lawyers’ legal request notes, the list goes on.In the motion, Mr. Blagojevich’s lawyers seem to suggest that the president himself could point up contradictions in the testimony about whether he had sent “emissaries” to Mr. Blagojevich with regard to who the White House would prefer fill the Senate seat.“First, Mr. Obama contradicts the testimony of an important government witness,” the lawyers’ motion says, apparently referring to a labor leader who may testify. “Second, President Obama’s testimony is relevant to the necessary element of intent of the defendant. Third, President Obama is the only one who can say if emissaries were sent on his behalf, who those emissaries were, and what, if anything, those emissaries were instructed to do on his behalf.”In late 2008, not long after Mr. Blagojevich’s arrest and before Mr. Obama had actually moved into the White House, Mr. Obama did answer questions – two hours worth – before federal agents and prosecutors.Not long after, Mr. Obama’s lawyers also issued an internal report they had compiled looking at what Mr. Obama and his aides had said and done in regards to Mr. Blagojevich and the Senate seat appointment. The report found that Mr. Obama had no direct conversations with Mr. Blagojevich’s office over the appointment, but had, through Rahm Emanuel  conveyed to Mr. Blagojevich’s staff the names of some people Mr. Obama considered highly qualified to take over his seat. Still, the report also stated that no associates of Mr. Obama had talks about a deal in which Mr. Blagojevich would benefit from appointing someone to the Senate seat.In its motion, Mr. Blagojevich’s defense team also raises another thorny issue it says it wants to talk to Mr. Obama about — “the character” of Antoin Rezko, a real estate developer and political fund-raiser, who has been convicted of fraud and bribery and who may be a witness for the government against Mr. Blagojevich. Mr. Obama’s ties to Mr. Rezko – who, before his criminal conviction, had helped raise money for Mr. Obama and had been involved in a deal related to land next to Mr. Obama’s house – were debated at length by Mr. Obama’s critics during his presidential campaign.The legal motion was filed with elaborate blacked-out portions – to comply, it said, with a court ruling over sealed information in the case, but an apparent glitch in the electronic filing revealed the redacted portions, parts of which were promptly posted on Web sites, including that of the Chicago Tribune and the Chicago Sun-Times. Among the motion’s claims in those unsuccessfully redacted sections, according to the newspapers: That a union official told investigators he had spoken to Mr. Obama about the president-elect’s feeling that one candidate, Valerie Jarrett, would be a good senator; That Mr. Obama and Mr. Blagojevich had a conversation – details not described – on Dec. 1 2008, just days before the former governor’s arrest. Peter Baker contributed to this post. 