DENVER ? President Obama dipped into two hotly contested Senate races on Thursday, flying out West to raise money and rally the Democratic troops for two struggling lawmakers: Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, who faces a challenge from within his party, and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, who wields power in Washington as his party’s leader but is vulnerable back home.Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesAppearing before a packed crowd in a concert hall here, Mr. Obama cast Mr. Bennet as an “agent of change” and a “tremendous ally for middle-class families.” But he conceded that the political climate for Democrats was difficult.“Michael’s running in a very tough environment, but he’s got one very powerful advantage: he’s got you,” Mr. Obama said, with Mr. Bennet at his side. “He’s been fighting for each and every one of you in Washington; he needs you to fight for him now.”The Western swing ? Mr. Obama was headed to Las Vegas after the rally and a private fund-raiser for Mr. Bennet ? comes as an anti-incumbent mood is threatening the strength of Democrats’ hold on the Senate. The party lost its 60-vote supermajority last month with the election of Scott Brown, a Republican, in Massachusetts, while a wave of Democratic retirements ? Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and, most recently, Evan Bayh of Indiana ? is brightening the picture for Republicans.“The outlook is not good,” said Jennifer Duffy, who tracks Senate races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. “They are going to lose seats. The question is: How many?.”At the same time, with Mr. Obama’s own job approval ratings hovering around 50 percent, there are questions about how much good he can do for Democratic candidates. Among the party’s base, though, Mr. Obama remains extremely popular, and Democratic officials ? not surprisingly ? insist the president is a major asset.“Nobody is a better deliverer of the Democratic message right now, and of the need for change, than Barack Obama,” said Eric Schultz, a spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.Here in Colorado, with Democrats set to caucus on March 16, Mr. Bennet faces a particular challenge. He has never run for political office; he was appointed a year ago to fill the seat of Ken Salazar, who became Mr. Obama’s interior secretary. His Democratic challenger, a former Colorado House speaker, Andrew Romanoff, is far better known within the party. Mr. Obama has ruffled feathers among some Democrats by inserting himself into the race, although the White House says the president’s policy is simple: he endorses the incumbent.Mr. Obama, who was expected to raise $650,000 to $700,000 for Mr. Bennet, made no acknowledgment of the intraparty contretemps here, but he did try to turn Mr. Bennet’s political inexperience to his advantage. “He hasn’t perfected the seven-second sound bite,” Mr. Obama said. “He’s never even made a TV ad.”The president’s task for Mr. Reid is perhaps more complicated. Mr. Obama is relying on Mr. Reid to push his agenda, especially his long-stalled health care bill, through the Senate. But there have been some recent tensions between the two; last week Mr. Reid surprised the Obama administration by pulling the plug on a White House-backed jobs bill at the last minute. And Mr. Obama was not exactly a help to Mr. Reid when, at a recent appearance in Nashua, N.H., he made what many Nevadans view as a disparaging remark about Las Vegas, saying, “You don’t blow a bunch of cash in Vegas when you’re trying to save for college.”The comment irked Las Vegas’s mayor, and Mr. Reid complained about it publicly. Mr. Obama’s appearance with Mr. Reid is to benefit the Democratic National Committee. Officials with knowledge of the planning of the Las Vegas fund-raiser say it is expected to bring in $1 million. Taxpayers will pick up much of the bill for the trip, because Mr. Obama is pairing it with an official event: a town-hall-style question-and-answer session in Las Vegas on Friday morning.With Mr. Reid trailing his Republican challengers in recent polls, Ms. Duffy said he was counting on the president to remind Nevadans of the importance of having a party leader in Washington. “What he needs is for Obama to essentially reiterate to voters how important Harry Reid is ? that being majority leader is a big deal and that it does great things for Nevada.”