The one thing that President Obama’s Twitter town hall was not?. A test of his ability to answer in 140 characters.For more than an hour, Mr. Obama took questions sent in via Twitter, but answered them the old fashioned way — verbally.Questions came over Twitter, submitted with the hashtag #AskObama. But they were read aloud by Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s co-founder and executive chairman, and answered by Mr. Obama as if he were being interviewed for a television news broadcast.For Mr. Obama, that meant answers of hundreds, even thousands of characters — a clear violation of basic Twitter etiquette, if not the specific rules of Wednesday’s town hall format.It was clear from the early questions that Mr. Obama had no intention of trying to squeeze his answers down. He began his response to a question about the debt ceiling with a phrase that accurately suggested a lengthy answer.“Let, me as quickly as I can, describe what’s at stake with the debt ceiling,” he started, and then started the rest of his answer with, “Historically…”It took a while.The questions focused primarily on economic factors, a reflection, Mr. Dorsey said, of the large interest in that subject among Twitter followers.One asked about clean energy and jobs. Another asked what Mr. Obama would do differently, prompting an answer from the president about the difficulty of resolving the housing crisis. Several tweets followed up on the housing issue, urging the president to do more to help people in trouble with their mortgages.“Most of this is going to be a function of the market slowly improving as people start having confidence in the economy,” Mr. Obama said in response to a question about the free market and housing. “Given the size of the housing market, no federal program is going to be able to solve the housing market.”Somehow among the tens of thousands of regular Americans, a couple of especially non-regular people got to ask questions.House Speaker John A. Boehner got to ask Mr. Obama “where are the jobs,” a question that he probably put to the president during a previously secret meeting at the White House over the weekend.“Obviously, John’s the speaker of the house,” Mr. Obama said, smiling. “He’s a Republican and so, this is a slightly skewed question. But what he’s right about is that we have not seen fast enough job growth relative to the need.”And then there was a question from Nicholas D. Kristof, a columnist for The New York Times, who asked why Mr. Obama did not get Republicans to agree to an increase in the nation’s debt limit during budget talks at the end of last year.Mr. Obama called Mr. Kristof “a great columnist,” but added gently that “that wasn’t the deal that was available.”Some ordinary Twitter followers were not happy at questions being posed by the powerful and well-connected.“Kristof &amp; Boehner questions poor judgment,” said one Twitter message. “Do NYT reporters and Speaker of the House have too little access to POTUS?.”Most of the Twitter queries were not very tough-minded and gave the president the opportunity to repeat his talking points.He answered several questions about taxes by saying that millionaires and billionaires should be willing to see their taxes go up. He listed his administration’s efforts to help small businesses. And he talked about trying to help veterans coming back from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan find jobs at home.At the beginning of the hour, Mr. Obama offered his own question, asking Twitter followers how they thought the government should help reduce the deficit. The answers were fairly predictable.Several suggested cuts in defense spending and ethanol subsidies. They said the government should keep spending on education, and they offered that Mr. Obama should stop sending money to corrupt governments. One suggested ending welfare programs.For the most part, Mr. Obama agreed, though he defended the government’s role in helping people and said defense spending should be cut carefully.In the end, Mr. Obama’s questions were pretty typical. But one thing that did change: the length of the questions. Washington is a town where reporters are famous for their sometimes rambling, three-part questions during presidential news conferences. Maybe if they had to ask their questions in 140 characters, more questions could be asked.