To the Editor:Regarding the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to President Obama on Friday :I applaud this stunning decision as a much-needed boost to the image of the United States on the world stage and as a vote of confidence in President Obama’s diplomatic efforts. But conservatives in this country are going to see it as an effort by the Nobel Committee to unduly influence President Obama’s policy review on Afghanistan. Meanwhile, progressives will find succor in what Rahm Emanuel jokingly referred to as an “Oslo beats Copenhagen” moment.Nonetheless, congratulations, Mr. President!. This award could not have come at a better time for you and America.?To the Editor:I love Barack Obama, I voted for him, I approve of his policy initiatives and his leadership. But the Nobel Peace Prize?. Isn’t it a bit premature?.?To the Editor:While the Nobel Peace Prize is a tribute to the mood that President Obama has created around much of the world and what he will do, it is also a strong statement by the Nobel Committee in Oslo against the American presidency of the last eight years.Once again many of us here in the United States feel that anything is possible, that everyone has the same chances. Alas, this was not the case during the last administration. Congratulations to President Obama, who has proven once again that “yes, we can.”?To the Editor:Notwithstanding my respect and admiration for Barack Obama’s record, this award seems wrong in too many ways. As many have said, it looks premature. But let me stress other drawbacks:¶It does not seem innocent. As has often been the case with Nobel awards, this one seems geared toward influencing policy , rather than recognizing achievements. ¶It misstates Mr. Obama’s most obvious accomplishments. If the Nobel Committee admires the president for starting a new era of postracial, multicultural, tolerant politics in America and the world , it should have said so explicitly.  ¶It eliminates the incentive for Mr. Obama to win the prize in the future. Most world leaders dream of winning the Nobel Peace Prize one day. Holding off on giving him the prize would have given Mr. Obama one more incentive to foster world peace in the years to come. The Nobel Foundation would be protecting its credibility by increasing its transparency and reducing its activism.The writer is a research fellow in the department of politics and international relations at the University of Oxford.?To the Editor:It is irresponsible and dangerous to award the Nobel Peace Prize to a sitting commander in chief currently overseeing two wars of aggression. The Nobel Committee made vague assertions about President Obama’s diplomatic efforts and lofty vision for a nuclear-free world.But the truth is that Mr. Obama is not the first president to call for nuclear disarmament, nor is he ready to set the example by destroying our enormous nuclear arsenal.It is deeply troubling that Mr. Obama was awarded the Nobel Prize not for what he has achieved, but for what he has said he hopes to achieve.?To the Editor:While I congratulate President Obama on his Nobel Prize, I fear that this award will only add to conservatives’ outrage and malicious characterization of the president. When he ran for office, without a Nobel Prize, he was mocked as “the anointed one.”I suspect that his receipt of an award, granted by a Norwegian committee, will encourage those critics who claim that Mr. Obama is somehow un-American or that he signals a nefarious Europeanization of American politics.?To the Editor:Have we returned to George Orwell’s “1984”?. Does “peace” mean “war”?.I believe that President Obama is the first recipient of the Peace Prize to be waging two wars at the very moment of the announcement of the award.