At the close of each fund-raising quarter, aides to President Obama often emphasize the amount of money he raises from his large network of grassroots supporters, the base of his Obama for America organization and a reliable source of small donations throughout the election cycle.But Mr. Obama has also proven himself adept at attracting much larger checks, as his latest fund-raising figures show, with a large portion of his total fund-raising — more than $55 million so far this year — coming in via the efforts of some 350 “bundlers,” wealthy supporters who gather checks from their networks of friends, family members and business associates. Unlike the Republican candidates, who have chosen this year not to voluntarily disclose their bundlers, Mr. Obama posts the list on his Web site each quarter. The latest list indicates that Mr. Obama recruited about 100 new bundlers during the three months ending Sept. 30, according to an analysis by The New York Times, some of them veterans of his 2008 effort and some new to the ranks of Mr. Obama’s top supporters. Among the new recruits are Harvey Weinstein, the movie mogul, who has raised more than half a million dollars for Mr. Obama and held a New York fund-raiser for him this summer; Roger C. Altman, a prominent investment banker who backed Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2008 but has raised more than $200,000 for Mr. Obama this year; and John E. Frank, a Microsoft executive, who has raised more than $500,000 for the president.Mr. Obama also recruited Amy Friedkin, a San Francisco philanthropist of Jewish causes and a former president of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, who raised more than $200,000 for Mr. Obama, and Patrick J. Kennedy, the former Rhode Island congressman, who raised more than $50,000.Among the former bundlers who have signed back on in recent months are Matthew Barzun, the former American ambassador to Sweden, who resigned in April become the Obama campaign’s national finance chairman; and Christine Forester, a California business consultant, who has raised more than $500,000 for Mr. Obama so far this year.Mr. Obama has also gained help from some Democratic officials who backed him in 2008, like Richard Harpootlian, the South Carolina Democratic Party chairman, who raised more than $200,000 for Mr. Obama in the last quarter, and Senator Robert P. Casey Jr., the Pennsylvania Democrat. 