Learn about key events in history and their connections to today.On Nov. 4, 2008, Barack Obama was elected the 44th president of the United States, defeating the Republican nominee John McCain. Mr. Obama, a United States senator from Illinois who was the son of a Kenyan father and a white mother from Kansas, became the first black commander in chief.As The New York Times reported: “The election of Mr. Obama amounted to a national catharsis — a repudiation of a historically unpopular Republican president and his economic and foreign policies, and an embrace of Mr. Obama’s call for a change in the direction and the tone of the country. But it was just as much a strikingly symbolic moment in the evolution of the nation’s fraught racial history, a breakthrough that would have seemed unthinkable just two years ago.”The election capped a meteoric political rise for Mr. Obama. He entered the national consciousness when, as a state senator, he delivered the keynote address at the 2004 Democratic National Convention. Later that year, he won his bid for the United States Senate. Mr. Obama entered the race for president in February 2007 with a speech at the Old State Capitol in Springfield, Ill., where Abraham Lincoln had delivered his “House Divided” Speech. He defeated the perceived front-runner for the Democratic nomination, Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a contentious primary campaign.Mr. Obama campaigned on a theme of “change we can believe in,” promising to end the Iraq War quickly, to introduce environmentally friendly regulations, and to pass universal health care. His message appealed to Americans who said they were frustrated by eight years of President George W. Bush’s administration as well as to young voters.Mr. Obama faced several controversies surrounding his ties to the 1960s left-wing activist William Ayers and his pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, as well as questions over the authenticity of his birth certificate, but the voting public favored him on most of the serious issues.The Times reported on Mr. McCain, a United States senator from Arizona and military war hero, that he “fought the headwinds of a relentlessly hostile political environment, weighted down with the baggage left to him by President Bush and an economic collapse that took place in the middle of the general election campaign.” Mr. Obama defeated Mr. McCain in the key battleground states of Ohio, Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Florida on his way to winning by a margin of 365 electoral votes to 173.In his victory speech at Grant Park in Chicago, seen in this video, Mr. Obama declared: “The road ahead will be long. Our climb will be steep. We may not get there in one year or even one term, but America, I have never been more hopeful than I am tonight that we will get there. I promise you: we as a people will get there.”Connect to Today:Three years after his election, much of the excitement over Mr. Obama’s presidency has faded. Since his election, the president has faced a number of challenges, perhaps most notably the mobilization of conservatives against his universal health care plan and stimulus bill, and the Democratic party defeats in the 2010 midterm elections. The president has been unable to turn around the economy and many of his most ardent supporters have criticized him for being too centrist.In an article that appeared on Sept. 11, 2011, The Times reported that many Democrats fear that Mr. Obama will be defeated in the 2012 election. One member of the Democratic National Committee “said Democrats needed to find a new blast of energy — something to remind them of what they felt in 2008 when Mr. Obama was elected on a slogan of hope and change.”Do you believe that President Obama has lived up to the promise of his election campaign?. Why or why not?. What are your thoughts on the criticisms leveled against him from both Republicans and Democrats?. If you could share your thoughts with him regarding the 2012 presidential election, what would you say?.Learn more about what happened in history on Nov. 4»Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea »