The State of the Union address President Obama will deliver on Tuesday was developed during months of deliberations with a small group of White House advisers who helped Mr. Obama channel his instincts as an author.The speech, as it always is, has been the focus of intense lobbying by interest groups as they jockey to convince the president to mention their issues. And the policy pronouncements are the result of a back-and-forth vetting with officials in the executive branch agencies.But how the president frames those policies and the words he chooses to speak derive from his style as a speechmaker. And in this way, Mr. Obama is very different from the previous Democratic president, Bill Clinton — Mr. Clinton is a talker; Mr. Obama is a writer.Mr. Obama and a small circle of his advisers started preparing what he would say in Tuesday’s State of the Union address just days after the midterm elections last November.Aides said the process began with an extended “download” from the president as he sat in the Oval Office surrounded by his top speechwriter, Jon Favreau; David Axelrod, his senior adviser; and other top White House officials.Mr. Obama discussed what he wanted to say while Mr. Favreau typed furiously into his laptop computer, capturing not only the president’s broad policy goals but Mr. Obama’s phrasing and tone.That began a weeks-long back and forth in which Mr. Obama would often take a draft of the speech back to the White House residence and sit with a legal pad, rewriting large sections in longhand, advisers said.Often, Mr. Obama typed out thoughts on his Blackberry, sending missives to his advisers about what he wanted to say or how he wanted to say it.The pattern is comfortable for Mr. Obama, who is an author of two books and likes putting his thoughts on paper, they said. The president has spent time practicing his delivery of the speech as it has gotten closer, but the development process was done largerly in writing.By contrast, senior aides to former President Bill Clinton said his major speeches were more often developed verbally, with aides grabbing sentences and paragraphs as he talked out loud.Michael Waldman, Mr. Clinton’s chief speechwriter, said that like Mr. Obama, Mr. Clinton would often start the process with a wide-ranging discussion about his goals and ideas. They would often begin with a thick notebook filled with speech ideas, memos from writers, books the president had read and notes from cabinet secretaries.But as the weeks would go on, Mr. Clinton’s editing would often be done in person. He would lean back onto his desk in the Oval Office and read out loud the latest draft, improvising wildly as he went along.“He would talk it through and we would tape record it,” Mr. Waldman recalled. “We would often take what he’d said and turn it into the next draft. The real music came when he spoke out loud what he was thinking.”Mr. Clinton’s musings were usually captured on paper by the White House stenographer, who would then transcribe the informal sessions for the president’s speechwriters to use as they developed the latest draft.Eventually, like Mr. Obama, Mr. Clinton would begin practicing the speech more formally, usually in the White House Family Theater, often with a teleprompter. But even during those sessions, Mr. Waldman said the president tended to go off script, offering new phrases that would be incorporated into the speech.Mr. Obama tends to be more disciplined in the practice sessions, aides said, and tends to adhere more to the written draft. His less free-form style — and his writerly approach to speechmaking — will be on display once again Tuesday night.