CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Representative Tom Perriello squeaked his way into Congress two years ago with a 727-vote victory over his Republican opponent — after a recount. Friday night, with his political future hanging by a thread, President Obama tried to come to his rescue. It was payback, in part, for the Democratic congressman’s support of the president’s landmark health bill.“Tom went to Washington to do what’s hard, he went to do what’s right, and now the lobbyists and the special interests are going after him,’’ Mr. Obama told a cheering throng of 10,000 who gathered in an outdoor pavilion and pedestrian mall downtown, a few miles from the grounds of the University of Virginia. “And the question I have for you is, ‘When somebody like this has your back, do you have his back?.’”The rally, Mr. Obama’s first and only appearance for an individual House candidate, was unusual. Until now the president has reserved his time and political muscle for travel to states where he can stump for Senate hopefuls and candidates for governor, or perhaps several House candidates at once. But with Mr. Perriello campaigning on a platform that includes a full-throated defense of the health bill and also an energy bill that Mr. Obama backed, he has become a darling of national Democrats, who view him as something of a folk hero. Aides to Mr. Obama said the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, personally asked Mr. Obama to make the appearance.And Mr. Obama obviously feels in Mr. Perriello’s debt, so much so that he gave the congressman a shout-out on “The Daily Show” with Jon Stewart this week, telling the host that Mr. Perriello was among “a bunch of folks’’ in Congress “who during the course of the year took really tough votes that they knew were bad politics because they knew it was the right thing to do.’’Republicans, though, mocked the event Friday.“Tom Perriello is doing what he has foolishly done over the course of the past two years — stand with President Obama,’’ Ken Spain, the communications director of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said in an e-mail to reporters.The rally was a head start on a final furious weekend of campaigning for the president, who will spend Saturday and Sunday on a four-state swing through Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Illinois and Ohio in an effort to close what aides call “the enthusiasm gap’’ between Democratic and Republican voters.The White House is hoping Mr. Obama’s appearance in each of those critical states will give voters, especially young people and blacks, the nudge they need to get to the polls on Tuesday. And Mr. Obama made an impassioned appeal in Charlottesville that they do so.“The only way to fight the millions in special-interest attack ads they are running is with the millions of voices who are ready to finish what we started in 2008,’’ he said, adding, “That wasn’t the end goal, it wasn’t just to put a president in, it wasn’t just to put Tom in, it was to keep building a movement for change, and if everybody who fought for change in 2008 shows up in 2010 then we will win this election.’’But whether Mr. Perriello can win, even with Mr. Obama’s help, is unclear. Polls here show him trailing behind his Republican opponent, State Senator Robert Hurt. One nonpartisan organization that tracks House races, the Rothenberg Political Report, rates the race a toss-up that tilts Republican; another, The Cook Political Report, puts the race in the lean Republican category.“Out of the Democrats who must pundits left for dead a month ago, Tom Perriello, may have the best shot, but he’s still an underdog,’’ said David Wasserman, who tracks House races for the Cook Report. Mr. Wasserman said left-leaning groups from around the country have been pouring money into advertising for Mr. Perriello in recent weeks. For Mr. Obama, he said, the appearance has an upside — giving a lift to the beleaguered Democratic base — and little downside, even if the congressman loses.“His mission,’’ Mr. Wasserman said of the president, ‘’is to hold up at least one Democrat in a Republican district as an example of a tough vote-taker who can win. Considering the expectation is that Perriello loses, President Obama has nothing to lose by energizing the Democratic base at the 11th hour.’’