LOS ANGELES – President Obama poked fun at Republicans and even his wife, Michelle, during a taped appearance on Tuesday on NBC’s “The Tonight Show,” cracking up the host Jay Leno if not his spouse.When Mr. Leno at one point noted that Republicans opposed Mr. Obama’s decision last week to withdraw all American troops from Iraq by the end of the year, the president dead-panned, “That’s shocking – that they opposed something I proposed.” Then both he and Mr. Leno started chuckling, as members of the audience clapped and whistled.When the host asked if Mr. Obama had been watching the televised debates of the crowded field of Republicans vying for the chance to unseat him, Mr. Obama said he hadn’t – “I’m going to wait until everybody’s voted off the island,” he joked, to an approving bada-boom from the show’s drummer and claps from a laughing Mr. Leno. “Once they narrow it down to one or two, I’ll start paying attention,” he added.Those were among the video clips that NBC released in advance. It was Mr. Obama’s fourth appearance on the show, his second as president.On a more serious note, Mr. Leno asked Mr. Obama for his reaction to the killing last week of the Libyan dictator, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.He added, “Obviously you never like to see anybody come to the kind of end that he did, but I think it obviously sends a strong message around the world to dictators that people long to be free and they need to respect the human rights and the universal aspirations of people.”Mr. Obama’s playful poke at his wife came in reference to Halloween, a festive occasion at the Obama White House but one at which Mrs. Obama promotes her fight for healthy nutrition and against childhood obesity. Mr. Obama, with an expression akin to that of a grossed-out kid, said Mrs. Obama gave trick-or-treaters bags of fresh fruit and raisins.He said he told her, “You know, the White House is going to get egged if this keeps up.” As Mr. Leno and the audience laughed, he continued, “You need to throw some candy in there, some Reese’s Pieces or somethin’.”Mr. Obama will learn his wife’s reaction when he returns to Washington from his Western trip on Wednesday night.On Qaddafi :On Iraq: On the Republican debates: