12:38 p.m. | Updated President Obama on Tuesday defended his budget as a difficult step toward stabilizing the nation’s finances, urging for bipartisan cooperation in Washington to address the risks from the nation’s growing  long-term debt.The president said his budget, the third of his presidency, reflects a new and changed reality in the country’s economic situation and allows for a greater focus on spending cuts and attention to the deficit.“The economy is now growing again. People are now hopeful again,” Mr. Obama said, speaking at his first news conference of the year. “In that environment, now that we are out of the depths of the crisis, we have to look at these long-term problems and these medium-term problems.”But Mr. Obama criticized Washington’s impatience on dealing with the entitlement programs, saying the lack of a budget plan to deal with Social Security and Medicare did not mean he had given up doing so.“You guys are pretty impatient. If something doesn’t happen today, then the assumption is that it’s not going to happen,” Mr. Obama said. “This is not a matter of ‘you go first’ or ‘I go first.’ This is a matter of everybody having a serious conversation about where we want to go and then ultimately everybody getting into that boat at the same time so it doesn’t tip over.”Yet Mr. Obama offered few specifics about how and when serious negotiations might begin over entitlement programs. He did, however, say the debt commission he appointed last year offered a “framework” for discussions. The White House is bracing for a long and difficult confrontation with Republicans, who have said they want deeper cuts in government spending.“My hope is that what’s different this time is we have an adult conversation where everybody says here’s what’s important and here’s how we are going to pay for it,” Mr. Obama said, speaking to reporters from an auditorium in the Eisenhower Office Building. “I think the commission changed the conversation.”During the news conference, Mr. Obama offered cautious support for the protests that appear to be spreading through parts of the Middle East in the wake of the uprising in Egypt. “Each country is different. Each country has its own traditions. America can’t dictate how they run their society,” the president said. He urged governments not to use violence to maintain control and said change was “going to happen because people come together and apply moral force to a situation.”Mr. Obama also defended his handling of the protests in Egypt; critics have said that his administration was too slow in responding and was a step behind the unfolding events.“In a complicated situation, we got it about right,” Mr. Obama said, citing the departure of Hosni Mubarak, the Egyptian president, without a serious crackdown on the protesters in Cairo.“History will end up recording that at every juncture in the situation in Egypt that we were on the right side of history,” the president said. “We ended up seeing a peaceful transition, relatively little violence and relatively little, if any, anti-American sentiment, relatively little anti-Israel, anti-Western sentiment.”To the protesters in other countries of the region, Mr. Obama said: “Your aspirations for greater opportunity, for your ability to speak your mind, for a free press — those are absolutely aspirations we support.” But the president added that “ultimately what happens in each of these countries will be determined by the citizens of those countries.”On the budget proposal, which he released on Monday, Mr. Obama compared the cuts he has proposed to the kind of belt-tightening that many families have had to make during the economic downturn.“We’re not going to be running up the credit card any more. That’s important and that’s hard to do,” the president said. “I recognize that there are going to be plenty of arguments in the months to come and everybody is going to have to give a little bit.”Asked about cuts to some of the programs that Democrats care deeply about, Mr. Obama acknowledged frustration with the number of Americans who are still suffering economically. He also mentioned that he had received many letters from people who are struggling.But he said that his ability to help the country recover economically over the long term will do more to help those individuals.“My job is to make sure we’re focused over the long term. Where do we need to go?.” Mr. Obama said.Most of the questions for the president were focused on the budget and the protests in the Middle East. But Mr. Obama was also asked about the detention of an American in Pakistan being held in the shooting deaths of two Pakistani men. The incident has strained the already tense diplomatic relations between the two countries.The United States is “concerned about the loss of life,” the president said. “We are not callous about that.” But he noted that his administration expects Pakistan to abide by international conventions that make diplomats immune to local prosecutions.If ambassadors start being “fair game” around the world, Mr. Obama said that would “untenable.”“It means they can’t do their job,” he said.“We are going to continue to work with the Pakistan government to get this person released,” the president added. “We’ve been very firm about this being an important priority.”