9:47 a.m. | Updated President Obama‘s campaign raised more than $42 million in the third quarter of the year, once again outpacing his Republican rivals despite the country’s economic woes and his low poll numbers.In addition to the money raised directly for his campaign, Mr. Obama helped the Democratic National Committee raise $27.3 million for a combined total of nearly $70 million during July, August and September. Jim Messina, the campaign manager, announced in an e-mail to the president’s supporters that 606,207 people donated to BarackObama.com, including more than 250,000 who had never contributed to the president before. While the Republican candidates remain focused on the early primary and caucus states, the Obama campaign, Mr. Messina said, was using its early fund-raising to set up campaign offices and build a ground infrastructure for next year’s election.“That support translates directly to what we can do on the ground,” Mr. Messina said. “In the past three months we’ve grown our organizing staff by 50 percent, and opened up three new field offices every week.”Mr. Obama and his aides have said they plan to raise hundreds of millions of dollars for his re-election campaign in anticipation of a flood of corporate money into groups that are raising money on behalf of his Republican opponents.“We’re up against a Republican Party and special interest-funded groups that will spend hundreds of millions of dollars spreading any message that they believe will defeat the president and roll back our efforts to build a fairer economy that rewards hard work and responsibility, not large corporations,” Mr. Messina said in the email Thursday morning.The campaign is also determined to overcome any disaffection among the president’s grassroots supporters, who are a source of small-dollar donations and volunteers for the campaign. In the days before the third quarter deadline, Mr. Obama’s campaign inundated his four-million-strong e-mail list with appeals from the president, the first lady, Michelle Obama, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and others, seeking small donations and even informing his supporters how many of their neighbors had already sent in checks.The campaign is hoping to surpass the million-donor mark in the coming days, and on Thursday pressed for additional donations.“Getting to a million grassroots donors isn’t just a huge accomplishment this early in the campaign,” Mr. Messina wrote. “It’s our answer to our opponents, the press, and anyone who wants to know whether the president’s supporters have his back.”The Obama campaign said on Thursday that of about 766,000 donations the campaign received during the third quarter, about 98 percent came in increments of $250 or less. The campaign did not disclose what proportion of the $70 million joint haul came from such checks, however.The fund-raising numbers represent a slight decline for Mr. Obama’s campaign from what he raised in the second quarter and a larger drop for the Democratic National Committee. But it is far more than any of the Republican candidates for president appear to have raised over the same period. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, in his first weeks in the race, will report about $17 million for the quarter, his campaign has said, while aides to Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, have suggest he will report a few million dollars less than that. Representative Ron Paul of Texas will report over $8 million, and the remaining candidates far less. But Republican independent groups, many of them established during the 2010 election and gearing up to take a major role, are likely to fill the breach in the coming months. Some, like American Crossroads, which has plans to raise $240 million during the 2012 cycle, are already hammering Mr. Obama with millions of dollars in television ads.Mr. Obama and the Democratic Party raised a total of $86 million during the second quarter of the year. The drop is in part a reflection of the difficulty that politicians have raising money during the summer months.But it is also an indication of the political struggles that Mr. Obama has had over the last several months. Administration officials have said that Mr. Obama had to cancel several fund-raisers during the standoff over the debt ceiling.And polls show that large majorities of the country believe the country is headed in the wrong direction. And many have soured on Mr. Obama’s handling of the economy.