Oh, to be a fly on the golf cart. President Obama on Saturday broke with his usual practice of golfing with three junior aides and for the first time teed up with former President Bill Clinton, who has written a new book on the government’s role in the 21st-century economy. Completing the foursome at the Joint Base Andrews golf course outside Washington on a gray, muggy afternoon was Mr. Obama’s chief of staff, William M. Daley, who was commerce secretary in Mr. Clinton’s administration, and Doug Band, a longtime aide-de-camp to the former president. More than four hours later, their game was over and spokesmen for the current and former presidents issued a joint statement reporting that the two men “enjoyed their round of golf.” It added, “Periodically, over the last two and a half years, they’ve gotten together to discuss the unique honor and extraordinary opportunity to lead this country. They were pleased to have the chance to visit once again today.”Mr. Obama expanded on his conversations with Mr. Clinton later, when he spoke at a gala dinner for the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. He told several thousand diners that he and Mr. Clinton talked about his resolve to let the Bush-era tax cuts expire after 2012 for high incomes — the top tax rates then would return to levels in place during Mr. Clinton’s administration — and Mr. Clinton recalled that the economy thrived during his presidency despite Republicans’ predictions otherwise. Mr. Obama has been criticized for not using his frequent golf outings to do a little business, like engaging with members of Congress or business leaders – as Mr. Clinton did when he was president. In June, Mr. Obama for the first time played with Speaker John A. Boehner, the Republican House leader and a fanatical golfer, but their collegiality ultimately did not yield business benefits. A month later their negotiations on a deficit-reduction compromise collapsed in acrimony, unsettling financial markets.  Dozens of times in the past, Mr. Obama has golfed with the same three or four aides, including one who is not long out of college. In a sign that Saturday was different, the small pool of reporters and photographers that always accompanies a president – and on golf trips usually waits out of sight in a clubhouse — was briefly taken to a green just as Mr. Obama and Mr. Clinton were finishing up at the first hole and getting back into their cart. Mr. Daley and Mr. Band had a separate cart. After a few minutes, the press pool was ushered to a food court to wait.  Mr. Clinton, having put far behind him the ill will of the 2008 Democratic nomination race, lately has been outspoken in defense of Mr. Obama’s stewardship of the economy against Republicans’ attacks. Occasionally Mr. Clinton has offered public advice, like suggesting in July that Mr. Obama could invoke the 14th Amendment to avoid a government default if Congressional Republicans refused to increase the federal debt limit. Mr. Obama rejected that counsel, saying his lawyers argued otherwise. As the last Democratic president since Franklin Roosevelt to be re-elected, Mr. Clinton increasingly is asked in interviews what advice he has for Mr. Obama, whose prospects in 2012 have darkened as the economic recovery has seemed to stall. It is hard to imagine that the subject of politics did not come up in the golf cart. Mr. Clinton has distilled his political and policy thoughts into a 208-page book to be released in November, “Back to Work: Why We Need Smart Government for a Strong Economy.” Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Clinton has been a cheerleader for federal aid to the infant green-energy industry, especially to counter China’s growing market share. Mr. Obama calls his agenda for government investments in education, research and cutting-edge technology “Winning the Future”; similarly, Mr. Clinton will offer “a plan to get America ‘back into the future business,’ ” according to a statement from the Alfred A. Knopf publishing house. The statement quotes Mr. Clinton as saying, in an implicit slap at Republicans, “There is no evidence that we can succeed in the twenty-first century with an antigovernment strategy, with a philosophy grounded in ‘You’re on your own’ rather than ‘We’re all in this together.’ ”