ELYRIA, Ohio – Conceding his health care overhaul had run into “a little bit of a buzz saw,’’ President Obama vowed on Friday to keep fighting for legislation that will “hold the insurance industry accountable” and “to bring more stability and security to folks who are in our health care system.’’ Mr. Obama came to this Cleveland suburb — where unemployment has hit 10.9 percent, according to figures released Friday — to defend his record and spread the word that his White House is focused on economic recovery and job growth. But with his health care bill in disarray in the wake of the recent Republican Senate victory in Massachusetts, Mr. Obama also sought to send a message that he is not giving up on a health overhaul, his top domestic priority.“I want you to understand, this is not about me. This is about you,” the president said in a town hall style meeting at Lorain County Community College here. “I didn’t take this up to boost my poll numbers.With his national job approval ratings down to about 50 percent, Mr. Obama seemed intent on convincing people here that he is a fighter – a word he used, in one variant or another, multiple times during his speech. Mr. Obama said he “won’t stop fighting to protect you from the kinds of deceptive practices we’ve seen from some in the financial sector.” He vowed that he “won’t stop fighting to open up government,’’ and said he “won’t stop fighting to cut waste and abuse in Washington.” The trip comes one day after Mr. Obama picked a big fight – with bankers on Wall Street, announcing new restrictions on their size that is intended to prevent them from needing bailouts in the future. Perhaps alluding to that, the president said, “it’s going to be a fight. You watch.’’This is a return trip to Elyria for Mr. Obama; he was here as a presidential candidate in early 2008 to tour a factory that has since closed. On Friday, he had plans to drop by a company that makes precision metal components, visit a a wind turbine manufacturing plant and a sporting goods factory, and take questions at the community college, where a mostly enthusiastic crowd was on hand to receive him in this Democratic stronghold.The visit comes as the White House struggles to chart a new course after Tuesday’s election, in which Scott Brown, the Republican, handily defeated Democrat Martha Coakley – and upended Mr. Obama’s plans for a health bill by stripping Democrats of their 60-vote supermajority. Aides to the president have interpreted the results as a sign that Americans are angry and frustrated over the economy, and Mr. Obama himself, in an interview with ABC, described a feeling of “remoteness and detachment’’ that many Americans have toward policymakers in Washington.On Friday, the president alluded to that distance. “You know, I said at the beginning how much it means to me to be able to travel this country, and how much it means to me to be here,” he said. “That is true now more than ever, because there’s no doubt that it’s easy to get a pretty warped view of things in Washington.’’