MACON, Mo. — President Obama, continuing his tour of the Midwest, told workers at a bio-ethanol plant Wednesday that he intended to achieve his goal of tripling America’s biofuels production in the next 12 years.“I may be president, but I was the senator from Illinois,” Mr. Obama said at the POET Biorefining plant. “This is not the first ethanol plant I’ve visited.”He extolled the benefits of biofuels and said that the United States must continue to invest in alternative fuels to become more competitive.Mr. Obama is on an unusual, meandering tour through America’s heartland, which the White House is billing as a “Main Street” visit. He started in Iowa on Tuesday, traveling to a wind turbine plant in Mount Pleasant, popping in at a local eatery and an organic farm and speaking to a town-hall-style rally in Ottumwa before heading to Des Moines on Tuesday night.On Wednesday, it was more of the same. Mr. Obama flew to Quincy, Ill., then dumped his plane, taking to the highway for an almost two-hour drive to the POET plant.On his way, he made an unannounced stop – literally — on Main Street. In this case, it was North Main Street in Monroe City, Mo., where Mr. Obama had a cheeseburger and fries at Peggy Sue’s Café.  “How’s everybody doing today?.” Mr. Obama asked diners. His waitress, who said her name was Jodie, was unfazed, telling reporters that Mr. Obama “ordered like a normal person.”“I take orders every day,” she added, when asked what it was like to serve the president.Mr. Obama is expected to take on Wall Street in his final stop at another rally in Quincy later Wednesday.In previewing Mr. Obama’s remarks, his deputy press secretary, Bill Burton, said:“The president is going to talk about the fact that it doesn’t take a degree from the Harvard School of Economics to understand that on Wall Street, things are getting back to normal. But if you look around Main Street in rural America, a lot of the places where we’ve been, we’re in a far place from a normal that should be acceptable to anyone.”