LOS ANGELES—As the president’s motorcade whisks him from Los Angeles International Airport to West Hollywood for the first of two fund-raisers on Monday night, he may notice signs of dissatisfaction: Posters of Mr. Obama’s secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton, have been plastered around the city, with the caption “Save Us Hillary.” This city is certainly still friendly turf for the president, even as his approval rating continues to slip. He won California with 61 percent of the vote in 2008, and Los Angeles donors continue to line his reelection coffers. But Sabo, the self-described libertarian street artist who put up the posters, is hoping to foment discord among the Democrats. His Facebook page also shows many other, more incendiary political posters, including one that places the Obama “O” logo in the middle of a Skinhead flag.“I was thinking about how I could divide the party,” he said. “With Obama taking the beating that he’s been taking these days, I’m sure then women’s movement is wondering what would have happened if Hillary had been elected.” Sabo is hardly the first of Mr. Obama’s critics to suggest that Mrs. Clinton should run—Dick Cheney recently called another Clinton candidacy “not a bad idea” — perhaps in an effort capitalize of Mr. Obama’s low poll numbers and reopen old Democratic Party wounds from the 2008 primary. In response to Mr. Cheney’s comment, Mrs. Clinton told CNN that there was a “below zero” chance that she would challenge Mr. Obama in a 2012 Democratic primary. Even if Mrs. Clinton doesn’t challenge Mr. Obama, Republicans are hoping that liberal dissatisfaction with him will entice some traditionally Democratic voters to cross the aisle, or at least stay home. Last year, William DeJean, a 49-year-old dentist from Chicago, spent $5,000 dollars of his own money earlier this month to run ads in New Orleans supporting Mrs. Clinton for president in 2012. But since she announced that she would not run, he has switched his support to Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a Republican candidate. He plans to run a TV spot for Mr. Huntsman in Los Angeles in a couple of weeks. Derek Shearer, a professor of diplomacy at Occidental College in Los Angeles who served as ambassador to Finland during the Bill Clinton administration, said he did not expect many Democrats to go as far as to support Republicans. But he said that his students, many of whom went door-to-door for Mr. Obama in 2008, might be less likely to volunteer or donate money. “Hollywood is still enamored of Obama,” he said. “But there is really a lack of enthusiasm for most people.” Mr. Shearer suggested that to re-energize his base, Mr. Obama might in fact need Mrs. Clinton’s help—as a vice presidential candidate, instead of as Secretary of State. “That is how he could take the disappointment and turn it in a positive direction,” he said. “If he wants to generate enthusiasm close to the levels of 2008, it would really energize the women’s vote in particular.” And in case anyone was wondering, the chances that Mr. Obama will see the sign during his swift trip to Los Angeles is fairly remote. While the White House understandably has not provided route information in the past – including where he might go via helicopter or presidential limousine – he likely will not pass any of the “Save Us Hillary” posters. Los Angeles commuters stuck in traffic due to presidential road closures are more likely to see them. 