5:35 p.m. | Updated There may be no relationship in Washington more fraught than the one between President Obama and his rival for the White House, Senator John McCain of Arizona.The two men are scheduled to meet privately in the Oval Office on Wednesday afternoon for one of the few face-to-face discussions since Mr. Obama bested Mr. McCain in the national election more than two years ago.A senior aide to Mr. McCain said the senator had no particular agenda heading into the private meeting. “I’m sure Egypt, free trade, earmark ban, immigration-border security will all come up,” the aide to Mr. McCain said. It was once thought that the two men might form a partnership of sorts in Washington if Mr. McCain used his tenure and stature in the Senate to serve as a bridge between conservatives and moderates on behalf of some of Mr. Obama’s policies.Just days after the election in 2008, Mr. Obama invited Mr. McCain for a Chicago visit that was described later as having had great chemistry. And early in Mr. Obama’s presidency, he blocked Republican efforts to delay confirmation of Hillary Rodham Clinton as secretary of state.“I remind all my colleagues, we had an election,” McCain said in his first speech on the Senate floor after losing. “I think the message the American people are sending us now is they want us to work together.” But Wednesday’s meeting comes after nearly two years in which the two men have hardly worked together. In fact, as Mr. McCain faced a primary challenge in 2010, his criticism and speeches about Mr. Obama’s administration became as heated as they were during the 2008 campaign.During an administration town hall meeting at the height of the debate over health care in 2010, Mr. McCain accused Mr. Obama of failing to deliver on the change he had promised.“We’re not campaigning anymore,” a clearly annoyed Mr. Obama told Mr. McCain. “The election’s over.”Mr. McCain laughed and responded, “I’m reminded of that every day.”In recent weeks, however, the relationship between the two men may have started to thaw. A spokesman for Mr. Obama said the meeting is the result of a call that the president placed to Mr. McCain after an opinion article that the senator wrote in The Washington Post praising Mr. Obama’s Tucson speech after the Arizona shootings.Mr. McCain “wanted to come see the president about some important issues, and the president is eager to see him,” said Bill Burton, a spokesman for the president.Mr. McCain wrote in mid-January that Mr. Obama had struck the right tone in his speech.“I disagree with many of the president’s policies, but I believe he is a patriot sincerely intent on using his time in office to advance our country’s cause,” Mr. McCain wrote. “I reject accusations that his policies and beliefs make him unworthy to lead America or opposed to its founding ideals. And I reject accusations that Americans who vigorously oppose his policies are less intelligent, compassionate or just than those who support them.”Update: White House officials said the president and Mr. McCain discussed “a wide range of issues” during their afternoon meeting, and focused on growing the economy and creating jobs.“The President also discussed our shared responsibility for our deficit, and his focus on working together in a bipartisan way to make tough choices necessary to ensure that our future isn’t built on a mountain of debt,” a White House official said after the meeting ended. The official said the president also thanked Mr. McCain for his leadership on ending congressional earmarks.Brooke Buchanan, a spokeswoman for Mr. McCain, called the meeting “productive” and said they discussed “a range of issues, including the situation in the middle east, immigration reform and border security, trade, and budgetary matters. Senator McCain looks forward to working with the President to address issues of mutual concern for the welfare of our country in these challenging times.”