President Obama called for increased spending on education and transportation in order to help increase American competitiveness on Tuesday, as the White House continued to position itself as business-friendly and prepared to wrestle with Republicans over the budget deficit.In remarks before small-business owners in Cleveland, Mr. Obama sought to promote the spending aspects of his budget, while pledging to cut unnecessary domestic programs. “By cutting back on what we don’t need, we can invest in the future,” Mr. Obama said.Mr. Obama arrived in Cleveland in the morning for what the White House billed as a listening session with small-business owners, with the president taking several members of his Cabinet with him for the day trip to the politically crucial state.“I did not come to Cleveland to talk, instead I came here to listen,” Mr. Obama said before sending the business owners into smaller groups to focus on job training, export growth and other subjects. He said that the Cleveland session was “not a photo op.”After those panels met, Mr. Obama talked about what he had heard, including anecdotes from owners he had met about efforts to increase exports of mozzarella and the importance of networking.Ever since the midterm elections thrust the Democrats into the minority in the House and reduced the Democratic majority in the Senate, Mr. Obama has been on a campaign to repair his relationship with business, and Tuesday’s events in Cleveland were part of that. At one session, one local businessman, Phillip Davis, told Mr. Obama that he was having trouble getting access to capital to help him meet demand for sales of microwaves in Europe. He urged Mr. Obama to change tax policy to allow people to invest in small businesses without having to pay capital gains tax.“That is such a good idea,” Mr. Obama responded, smiling, “that we implemented it last year.” Then, he added, presumably for the benefit of reporters in the room, “this was not a setup.”White House officials believe that Mr. Obama’s quick visits to politically significant states — he was in California last week and will be in Florida next week — along with his outreach to business will help to position him for the deficit battle in Washington. Last week the president had a private dinner with executives from high-tech companies including Apple, Facebook and Google. 