Des Moines, Iowa  – From the first Republican presidential debate in two months, to the state fair, which is a must stop for any White House contender, to a crucial GOP straw poll, the campaign spotlight is firmly shining on Iowa the next three days. And after the three days are over, the race for the White House may not be the same."You asked your question and now I am going to give my answer. If you don't like my answer then you can vote for someone else. But now it is my turn to give my answer," Romney said to cheers, as he answered a contentious question from a member of the crowd.Most of the other White House hopefuls, as well as Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who's closer and closer to formally entering the race, and former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, who's flirting with a run for the nomination, are also showing up at the state fair over the next few days.And then there's the Ames Straw Poll, which traditionally alters the battle for the Republican nomination. The event, on Saturday on the Iowa State campus in nearby Ames, is part straw poll, part party, and part fundraiser. And for the campaigns, "it's truly an organizational test on all fronts," says Mary Cownie, former communications director for the Iowa GOP. "It's unique because it's an all day event, where all the candidates can come, where all Iowans can go and speak to each of the candidates, and then vote in the straw poll."The straw poll, which takes place the August before the start of the caucus and primary season, in election cycles without a sitting Republican president running for re-election, was first held in 1979. While there are numerous straw polls in the Hawkeye state, the one in Ames is the main attraction, because it draws voters from across Iowa, and because it attracts the national political press corps.Here's how the event, which is also known as the Iowa Straw Poll, works: In advance campaigns bid for tent spaces surrounding the Hilton Coliseum, where they set up camp, providing food and entertainment for their supporters. This year Rep. Ron Paul of Texas, who's making his third run for the presidency, shelled out $31,000 for the best piece of real estate, closest to the coliseum. It's the same spot that Romney, who's not taking part in the straw poll this time around, secured four years ago for his first bid for the White House.
