Businessman Herman Cain made one campaign stop in South Carolina before returning to Atlanta to meet with his wife and family after a wave of allegations have threatened his presidential campaign.Political activist Jamie Harrison tried to rally the audience before Cain walked out. "So what do you want him to do?. Run, run, run?."Cain appeared to be in good spirits as he delivered his stump speech. He told about 200 people gathered that his journey is part of God's plan."There is God's plan but you see, God doesn't tell you his plan for you until he believes you are ready for those parts of the plan. So I believe that I'm on this journey, I'm on this journey for a reason and I don't look back," said Cain.After he acknowledged "some challenges," Cain said he will address the future of his presidential campaign Saturday at the scheduled opening of his new Georgia campaign headquarters. He said the announcement will "clarify exactly what the next steps are" for the campaign."I am reassessing because of all of this media firestorm stuff. Why?. Because my wife and family comes first, I got to take that into consideration," said Cain. "I don't doubt the support that I have, just look at the people that are here. We have to look at what happens to contributions and we got to reevaluate the whole strategy."Cain urged his supporters to stay informed. "Because there's a lot of garbage out there on the internet. There's a lot of garbage out there on TV. There's a lot of garbage out there about me, don't you know," he said as the crowd cheered. "There's a lot of misinformation out there so you have to stay informed and check out the facts for yourself."After the town hall, people walked up to Cain and said, "Don't give up on us" and "Don't quit Herman!."As he was getting into his SUV two men shouted, "Herman, America needs you. Don't stop" and "Think of our grandchildren this weekend."This was the candidate's third visit to Rock Hill. Cain has four paid staffers in South Carolina with its headquarters in Columbia. South Carolina Director William Head said they are in the process of opening three field offices in Aiken, Greenville, and Myrtle Beach.Head said, "Obviously the campaign moves full steam ahead."
