NEW DELHI  — Hampered by heavy election losses at home, President Obama promised from India on Sunday to make “midcourse corrections” to reinvigorate his embattled domestic agenda in the face of a testier American public and more combative Congress.On a day of friendly outreach, Mr. Obama also was confronted about his support for Pakistan, New Delhi’s nuclear neighbor and rival. He defended the alliance while acknowledging that Pakistan-based extremists are “a cancer” with the potential to “engulf the country.”His comments took on added significance because he spoke in Mumbai, where memories are fresh from attacks in 2008 by Pakistani assailants that killed 166 in the city. Mr. Obama urged the two nations to talk peace; he didn’t commit the United States as middle man.Domestic politics followed Mr. Obama across the globe, and he tried to explain how he will recalibrate his presidency from the rubble of this past week’s elections. The topic came up not in response to a question from a Washington reporter but rather an Indian college student, who told Mr. Obama, “It seems that the American people have asked for a change.”The president agreed that people vented their frustration about the economy by sacking many incumbents. A “healthy thing,” he said, even though his Democratic Party suffered, losing control of one of the chambers in Congress. He said he would not retreat on spending money for energy and education, and he offered no specific policy changes.But then he added that the election “requires me to make some midcourse corrections and adjustments. And how those play themselves out over the next several months will be a matter of me being in discussions with the Republican Party.”Mr. Obama’s words reflected the new political reality, sinking in by the day, that he must give ground to have hopes of advancing the leftover promises of his 2008 campaign. He increasingly is likely to compromise on extending tax cuts not just for the middle class but for the rich, at least temporarily, and will focus more on bringing down the federal deficit.For all his emphasis on jobs and security, Mr. Obama was determined to make Sunday a more casual expression of his engagement in India. And this picture emerged: a rigid but good-spirited attempt by the president to dance with children, who pulled him from his chair to join them and his wife, Michelle, already participating gracefully.That scene unfolded at a school where the Obamas spoke with students about science projects and helped celebrate the religious festival known as Diwali. Said one boy afterward, “I am feeling very proud.”The centerpiece of Mr. Obama’s day was his stop at St. Xavier College, a Jesuit institution where students waited for hours outside for him in the heat.Mr. Obama has used this town-hall format in his foreign travels as a comfortable way to connect with people, although by the time he was done offering advice to the students, he only had time for six questions.One of the sharper ones was “Why is Pakistan so important an ally to America, so far as America has never called it a terrorist state?.”There were some murmurs from the audience.Mr. Obama said it was OK. He knew the question was coming.Muslim-dominated Pakistan and Hindu-majority India have gone to war and still hold deep suspicions. Indian officials accuse Pakistan’s intelligence service of helping orchestrate the Mumbai attacks and say Islamabad has not done enough to crack down on the Pakistan-based extremists held responsible.Story Continues ?View Entire StoryCopyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.