Follow @daveboyerPresident Obama sought to usher in a new U.S. relationship with the Middle East, promising economic aid to nations engaged in democratic reforms and calling out by name the region’s most belligerent rulers.Capitalizing on popular uprisings that began in Tunisia and swept through Egypt, Syria, Libya and elsewhere, Mr. Obama said Thursday that the United States will use “all our influence” to persuade allies and enemies alike to respect human rights and open up their political systems.“We have the chance to show that America values the dignity of the street vendor in Tunisia more than the raw power of the dictator,” Mr. Obama said from an ornate dining room at the State Department in a speech televised around the world. “There must be no doubt that the United States of America welcomes change that advances self-determination and opportunity.”He proposed a series of economic initiatives, including forgiving $1 billion of Egyptian debt and offering loan guarantees of up to $1 billion for Egypt and Tunisia. Among the diplomats and dignitaries in the audience at State was former Sen. George Mitchell, who recently resigned as Mr. Obama’s special envoy to the Middle East with little to show for his efforts.The president laid out a thin framework for restarting peace negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, including a call for Israel to pull back to the borders that existed before the 1967 Six-Day War. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, scheduled to meet with Mr. Obama on Friday, promptly rejected the president’s suggestion.House Republican Policy Chairman Tom Price, Georgia Republican, said Mr. Obama’s boundary proposal is “directly undermining the strongest democracy in the region.”Florida Republican Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, chairwoman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said Mr. Obama was right to call out Syria and Iran as “partners in repression.” But she said he failed to articulate firm consequences.“We did not hear a plan to vigorously enforce all sanctions laws on the books to bring the greatest pressure possible on the Iranian and Syrian regimes,” she said.The Republicans running for the 2012 nomination lined up to denounce the speech. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney said the speech “threw Israel under the bus,” and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich called it “the most dangerous speech ever made by an American president” about Israel.James Carafano, an analyst on defense and security at the conservative-leaning Heritage Foundation, said Iran “rated barely a mention.”“The new wrinkle is a halfhearted promise to bring economic freedom to the Middle East when he can’t deliver a free-trade deal with South Korea, one of our closest allies,” Mr. Carafano said.In his speech, Mr. Obama said Syrian President Bashar Assad now has a choice: lead a transition to democracy “or get out of the way.”The Obama administration this week announced sanctions against Mr. Assad and six other top Syrian officials in response to their bloody crackdown on anti-government demonstrators.“The Syrian government must stop shooting demonstrators and allow peaceful protests,” Mr. Obama said. “It must release political prisoners and stop unjust arrests.”But the president didn’t specify consequences, saying only that Mr. Assad “will continue to be isolated abroad” if he fails to heed Mr. Obama’s warning.Story Continues ?View Entire Story© Copyright 2011 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.