Former Utah Go. Jon Huntsman announced his campaign for president Tuesday morning, offering an alternative candidacy aimed to excite an uncommitted GOP base. With the Statue of Liberty as his backdrop, the former ambassador to China under President Obama cast his candidacy as something entirely new to the race. While he pledged to keep his campaign civil, he took an early and direct shot at his old boss in outlining his rationale for running. "We need more than hope," Huntsman said. "We need answers."He pitched his late-to-the-field campaign as the best option to avert what he described as the fiscal "disaster" looming ahead. He pledged not to shy away from making the "hard choices" necessary to cut the budget, warning that entitlement spending and interest on the debt will otherwise eat up the entire budget by the end of the decade, sending the country on a downward spiral. "For the first time in history we are passing down to the next generation a country that is less powerful, less compassionate, less competitive and less confident than the one we got," he said. "This  is totally unacceptable and it is totally un-American and it need not, must not and will not be our permanent condition."After months of flirting with a bid, the infrastructure of Huntsman's campaign is now up and running, including his official campaign website and Twitter account.In an email to supporters he said: "Our campaign is different. Our ideas are different. Our results will bring America back to the top."Huntsman gave his first speech as a candidate at Liberty State Park in New Jersey. It's the same place where Ronald Reagan announced his candidacy in 1980. Despite the brief-but-dismissive reference to Obama's "hope" theme in the last election, Huntsman pledged to keep his campaign civil."I don't think you need to run down someone's reputation in order to run for the office of president," he said. Though he may have a tough time convincing conservatives to support someone who served inside the Obama administration, the ex-governor finished a strong second in a Republican straw poll over the weekend and has been hitting the talking points considered most critical to the 2012 election -- jobs and fiscal responsibility. He argues that with his business background and fiscally conservative views he can help the U.S. economy rebound. Huntsman's moderate stance on some issues and his service in the Democratic Obama administration could work against him in the Republican primaries, where conservative voters dominate, even though he also has worked for three Republican presidents.
