That figure along with the $ 39 million the campaign reported raising for the Democratic National Committee was the subject of much enthusiasm from Jim Messina , the campaign manager , in a morning conference call with reporters .
The call took place after the Obama campaign had released the numbers in a video to supporters .
But there s much that will not be clear until Mr. Obama delivers his formal paperwork to the Federal Election Commission before midnight on Friday .
\* Mr. Messina said that 98 percent of the individual donations came in checks of $ 250 or less , a figure he said should end any Washington chatter about whether our grass-roots base will be engaged .
But the campaign will not announce until Friday what actual proportion of Mr. Obama s $ 47 million haul came from such checks , during a period when the president attended a significant number of fund-raisers for wealthy donors who typically give thousands of dollars , along with small-donor events .
The campaign also made a point of referring to the donations and not the donors , and did not give the total number of donations from a single donor .
\* Mr. Obama s aides boasted of adding more than 260,000 new donors during the quarter , close to half of the overall 552,462 people who gave and more than the campaign had during all of 2007 .
But what of Mr. Obama s vast database of donors to his first presidential campaign , numbering 3.95 million , according to the campaign ? .
In other words , while roughly a quarter-million new donors signed on to Mr. Obama s re-election , the vast majority of those who supported Mr. Obama in 2008 haven t yet sent the president a dime .
\* Moreover , Mr. Obama , who faces no challenge from within his own party , is raising money for both the primary period and the general election ; money raised for the election can not be spent until after he is formally renominated next summer .
And while Mr. Obama is unlikely to face a primary challenge , the campaign will need that money to build a ground operation and to respond to attacks from rivals and independent Republican groups .
His closest competitor in terms of dollars , Mitt Romney , raised only $ 18.25 million in the quarter , but all of it is primary money .
And while even half of Mr. Obama s $ 47 million would be more than Mr. Romney has raised , it s difficult to make an apples-to-apples comparison until the campaigns file with the F.E.C. later this week .
No Republican candidate has committed to releasing the names of so-called bundlers , wealthy supporters who raise money on their behalf .
