Just how racially heated will the 2012 presidential election get ? .
Rush Limbaugh may have provided a taste on Monday , during a riff on his radio show about the first lady Michelle Obama s appearance on Sunday at a Nascar race in Homestead , Fla. , where she and Jill Biden , the wife of the vice president , were audibly booed while promoting initiatives for veterans .
What is so hard to understand about this woman being booed ? .
he said , calling her Mooch-elle .
We don t like paying millions of dollars for Mrs. Obama s vacations , he said , also complaining about her exhortations about nutrition and exercise .
Nascar fans , he said , understand it s a little bit of a waste .
They understand it s a little bit of uppity-ism .
The comment provoked immediate attention because of his use of uppity , with its implication that African-Americans should somehow keep to their stations and the word s long association with racially based violence .
Though Mrs. Obama was called a baby mama and worse during the 2008 election , those insults have mainly receded to the fringes since she has become first lady .
In a brief interview , the Rev. Al Sharpton , the activist and television and radio host , shrugged off Mr. Limbaugh s comments as a distraction .
Our energy has to be on health care and jobs , he said .
I think we must be disciplined enough not to let them meaning Mr. Limbaugh and other administration critics paint us into a gutter conversation .
The word was painful and inappropriate , he said , but he also cautioned against the dangers of overreaction .
If you don t react in extreme ways they look even more extreme , he said .
If they re out there calling the first lady names , and we ve never seen a first lady treated this way , why get in the way of their desperation ? .
Many African-Americans had a similar been-there-seen-that reaction .
Rush Limbaugh s comments today were nothing new under the sun , Patrice Elizabeth Grell Yursik , who writes Afrobella , a blog about multicultural beauty , said on Twitter in response to a request for reactions .
Michele Norris , the host of All Things Considered on NPR who recently announced a leave from her duties while her husband works for the Obama re-election campaign , also responded on Twitter , saying , The word uppity often sez more abt the cultural expectations of the speaker than the ambitions or actual demeanor of the target .
But all of that may be easy to say now , when the general election is still months away .
Because the Obamas are the first African-American first couple , no one yet knows what it might be like for the country or for the Obamas to witness racially tinged attacks on a sitting first lady .
Mr. Sharpton , for one , had a prediction .
