Herman Cain suspended his presidential campaign on Saturday amid accusations of sexual harassment and of an affair , thinning the Republican field .
This latest development and the strategies of the other Republican candidates as they head into the Iowa caucuses are expected to dominate the Sunday shows .
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota joins CNN s State of the Union and Fox News Sunday to talk about her strategy in Iowa , where she won the Ames Straw Poll .
Representative Ron Paul of Texas will also be on CNN .
Plus , Senator John McCain of Arizona , ranking Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee , will talk about relations with Pakistan and another significant topic of the week , the Congressional battle over the payroll tax and unemployment benefits .
Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota , who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee , and Senator Tom Coburn , Oklahoma Republican and member of the Senate Finance Committee , will weigh in on the payroll tax fight on Fox .
Reince Priebus , chairman of the Republican National Committee , will be on NBC s Meet the Press and CBS s Face the Nation , talking about the 2012 race .
He will be joined by David Axelrod , chief strategist on President Obama s re-election campaign , on NBC and Robert Gibbs , Mr. Obama s campaign adviser , on CBS .
ABC s This Week features Rick Santorum , talking about his prospects for a breakthrough victory in Iowa .
Then Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts , ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee , will share his views on the state of affairs in Congress after his announcement that he will not seek re-election .
November s jobs report sparked a little cautious optimism on Friday as the unemployment rate dropped to its lowest level in two years .
Gene Sperling , the director of the White House s National Economic Council , talks about it on C-Span s Newsmakers .
Bloomberg s Political Capital hosts Representative Fred Upton , Republican of Michigan and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee .
Representatives Grace L. Napolitano , Democrat of California , and Francisco Canseco , Republican of Texas , talk about jobs and the economy on Enfoque , a Spanish-language public affairs show on Telemundo .
Mr. Obama s senior adviser on Latin America , Dan Restrepo , joins Univision s Al Punto to discuss the president s agenda in the region .
On TV One s Washington Watch , Representative Karen Bass , Democrat of California , explains her proposal to fight child abuse , and Robert L. Johnson , BET founder , talks about his plan to address the unemployment crisis in the African-American community .
Hungry for more ? .
Do you live in Iowa ? .
Have you received a campaign mailer from Mitt Romney s campaign ? .
