Mitt Romney walked away emboldened and untouched from his first Republican presidential debate , but he said Tuesday that his rivals were not likely to treat him so gently as the campaign intensifies , and he conceded that the criticism over his health care plan was not likely to go away .
I don t think there are any questions that will be put to rest until somebody s won , said Mr. Romney , whose smile illustrated his delight over not becoming the target of his rivals .
He added , We were respectful to one another .
We aimed our rhetoric toward the president where it was deserved .
The day after the first major candidate debate of the 2012 campaign , Mr. Romney basked in a burst of compliments and congratulations as he visited two diners , a hardware shop and a feed store .
A series of rolling photo opportunities unusual for a candidate who has purposefully kept a low-profile presence in the early stages of the race provided an opportunity for Mr. Romney to keep driving home his economic message .
Things aren t better now than they were four or five years ago , Mr. Romney said .
You can t blame George Bush anymore .
President Obama is going to have to take responsibility for the fact that we re still in a very troubled economy .
Mr. Romney , a former governor of Massachusetts , mentioned the president s name again and again on Tuesday morning as he met with business owners , restaurant guests and motorists who jumped out of their cars to shake Mr. Romney s hand .
It s a little different than five years ago when no one knew who I was , Mr. Romney told reporters as he walked through downtown Derry .
Ron McPhail , 43 , pulled over his dump truck and rushed to meet Mr. Romney .
He said he supported Mr. Romney because of his experience as a solid business man , which is just what the country needs .
Asked how he thought Mr. Romney performed in the debate on Monday evening at St. Anselm College , which was televised for two hours during prime time on CNN , Mr. McPhail smiled and conceded that he was not watching .
He was tuned to Game 6 of the Boston Bruins quest to win the Stanley Cup .
No offense taken , Mr. Romney assured him .
It was a good night for both of us , said Mr. Romney , who knows from experience that a good debate performance can have a limited shelf life in a fast-moving campaign .
But for Tuesday , at least , he was happy to bask in the glow of universally strong reviews from pundits and voters alike .
