Standing before the locked gate of a steel plant that President Obama had once visited to promote his economic stimulus plan , Mitt Romney pointed out weeds and boarded-up windows on Friday and called the president s handling of the economy a failure .
He did so just a day after the president used a rare White House press conference to pressure Congressional Republicans to come to the table and compromise to solve the federal deficit , while asking voters to be patient about the slow recovery and high jobless rate .
Mr. Romney seized on the issue , telling reporters : The plant here had been open 100 years .
It survived the Great Depression .
It couldn t survive the Obama economy .
Now the president says , Just give me more time , and it could have been worse , Mr. Romney continued .
It couldn t have been worse for the people who worked at this plant .
For them this is as bad as it gets .
Mr. Romney , the former governor of Massachusetts who leads in early polls for the Republican nomination , maintained his campaign strategy of directing criticism at Mr. Obama as though he were already the nominee , even though the general election is more than a year away .
During the 15 minutes he spoke and took reporters questions , he never mentioned any of his Republican challengers .
Rather than visiting a crucial early primary state , he was making his first campaign trip to Pennsylvania , a state that usually votes Democratic in presidential elections as if his anointment to run against Mr. Obama were all but inevitable .
The setting was the Allentown Metal Works , a plant that closed on Jan. 15 after struggling for years .
Mr. Obama had toured the plant in December 2009 as part of a swing through Pennsylvania s Rust Belt to promote the gradual positive effect of the $ 787 billion stimulus bill he had pushed through Congress .
He said at the time that the stimulus created or saved as many as 1.6 million jobs and had turned around the economy and gotten it slowly growing .
But Mr. Romney insisted that the stimulus and other measures had failed .
If people want change and they want not this as a symbol of hope , but real work and a growing economy as a symbol of hope , then we re going to have change in Washington and change in the White House .
Earlier in the day , his campaign posted a Web video using the shuttered steel plant to attack the president .
