President Obama said that he expected Republicans to offer him more cooperation after November s elections , no matter the outcome .
In an hour-long interview with the Times s White House correspondent , Peter Baker , Mr. Obama predicted that his political rivals would either be chastened by falling short of their electoral goals or burdened with the new responsibility that comes from achieving them .
It may be that regardless of what happens after this election , they feel more responsible , either because they didn t do as well as they anticipated , and so the strategy of just saying no to everything and sitting on the sidelines and throwing bombs didn t work for them , Mr. Obama said .
Or they did reasonably well , in which case the American people are going to be looking to them to offer serious proposals and work with me in a serious way .
The president s comments are reported in an in-depth assessment of Mr. Obama s first two years in office that appears in the Times Magazine this Sunday .
In the article , which is based on interviews with nearly two dozen of the president s advisers in addition to the president himself , Mr. Baker offers a series of inside details about Mr. Obama s time in the White House , including : In the magazine article , Mr. Obama reflects on his presidency , admitting that he let himself look too much like the same old tax-and-spend Democrat , realized too late that there s no such thing as shovel-ready projects and perhaps should have let the Republicans insist on the tax cuts in the stimulus .
He pushed back against what he called the mythology that his 2008 presidential campaign had been flawless and that his presidency suffers by comparison .
The mythology has emerged somehow that we ran this flawless campaign , I never made a mistake , that we were master communicators , everything worked in lockstep .
And somehow now , as president , things are messy and they don t always work as planned and people are mad at us , Mr. Obama said .
That s not how I look at stuff , because I remember what the campaign was like .
And it was just as messy and just as difficult .
And there were all sorts of moments when our supporters lost hope , and it looked like we weren t going to win .
And we re going through that same period here .
He also predicted that in the next two years , his administration would focus less on trying to pass new legislation and more on implementing and consolidating what passed in the first two years .
