It's early, and State of the Union is bringing you the best of the morning headlines to go with your cup of coffee.On our radar this morning:  Cain's big win in Florida, President Obama's new re-election strategy, and the Congressional call for bipartisanship.Check out what we're reading, and make sure to watch our interview with Senior White House Adviser David Plouffe today at 9am/12pm ET.WHITE HOUSEObama 2012 campaign’s Operation Vote focuses on ethnic minorities, core liberalsOperation Vote will function as a large, centralized department in the Chicago campaign office for reaching ethnic, religious and other voter groups. It will coordinate recruitment of an ethnic volunteer base and push out targeted messages online and through the media to groups such as blacks, Hispanics, Jews, women, seniors, young people, gays and Asian Americans.The campaign this month hired a longtime Jewish political activist as a point person for that community, the first of many such hirings to come this fall as staffers are brought on from each of the target groups.Small Donors Are Slow to Return to the Obama FoldAbout a quarter of Mr. Obama’s record haul during the 2008 cycle came from donors giving $200 or less, supporters who could be tapped again and again without hitting federal contribution limits.Through June 30, the close of the most recent campaign reporting period, more than 552,000 people had contributed to Mr. Obama’s re-election effort, according to campaign officials. Half of them were new donors, and nearly all of them gave contributions of less than $250.But those figures obscured another statistic: a vast majority of Mr. Obama’s past donors, who number close to four million, have not yet given him any money at all.In feisty CBC speech, Obama tells blacks to ‘stop cryin’ and ‘put on your marching shoes“Take off your bedroom slippers. Put on your marching shoes,” he said, his voice rising as applause and cheers mounted. “Shake it off. Stop complainin’. Stop grumblin’. Stop cryin’. We are going to press on. We have work to do.”Obama administration must make risky healthcare decisionObama administration lawyers face a decision by Monday that carries a high political risk and will probably determine whether the Supreme Court decides on the constitutionality of the healthcare law before next year's presidential election.The Justice Department could ask the full U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta to reconsider a 2-1 decision in August that declared the law's mandate that all Americans must have health insurance unconstitutional.
