As the historical recall elections kick into high gear, small hometown events are taking on special significance. Critics around the country have expressed concerne external activist groups are exerting extreme pressure on the politics in Wisconsin in anticipation of the battleground for the 2012 Presidential election. However in Wisconsin, when a controversial bill was introduced which stripped away public employee’s collective bargaining rights, a cascade of recalls of state senators began in earnest.In the small town of Wesby in western Wisconsin, the annual Syttende Mai parade was held. The event celebrates Norwegian independence. Assembly Representative, Jennifer Shilling [D] used the opportunity to gain local support. She is currently part of a likely recall election against incumbent Senator Dan Kapanke [R], which is tentatively planned for July 12 throughout the state. Shilling worked the parade route with the assistance of U.S. Congressman, Ron Kind. With typical Wisconsin hometown flavor, without outside intervention, parade goers had the opportunity to “meet and greet” Shilling as she stressed, “We are fighting for the rights of Wisconsin workers, and for the middle class of the state.”As each candidate canvases the state, hometown politicking will take on additional significance. According to the Milwaukee Journal, “Republicans are being targeted for recall because of a bill they passed to limit collective bargaining for public workers. Democrats are being singled out for recall because they left the state for three weeks to try to prevent passage of the measure.” The Chicago Tribune reported, “The scope and success of the recall petitions is unprecedented in U.S. history. According to the National Conference on State Legislatures only 20 state officials nationwide have ever been forced into a recall election." Currently 6 Republicans and 3 Democrats are in the mix for potential recall. The Democrats only need a net gain of 3 seats to take over majority control of the state senate. The Associated Press reports that the latest drive to recall Wisconsin Senator, D- Stevens Point collected a little more than 6,000 signatures falling far short of the 15,879 signatures to trigger a recall.For the traditional Syttende Mai festival, at least for this day, it was less on polarizing politics and more on shaking hands and remembering faces, and enjoying hometown campaigning- Wisconsin Style.
