 As Mitt Romney returns to Iowa, the question of whether he'll pick up the pace on the campaign trail in the state that kicks off the presidential primary and caucus calendar remains unanswered."Governor Romney will be in Iowa enough to show he's the best candidate to beat President Obama on jobs and the economy," Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul told CNN. "We've been here before and we've always said we would be back. We want to win wherever Governor Romney's name is on the ballot."The candidate himself says the same thing. Asked by voters recently in Sioux City if he intends to pick up the pace, Romney said "I will be here again and again, campaigning here. I want to get the support of the good people in Iowa. I'd love to win in Iowa. Any of us would. And so I'll campaign here. I intend to campaign in, well, in all the early states at least, and maybe all the states at some point."But last week Romney skipped two high-profile events in Iowa that were attended by most of the other major candidates.Four years ago Romney went big in Iowa, spending a lot of time and money there. But the strategy backfired when one-time longshot Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, won the January 2008 caucuses.Wounded in Iowa, Romney was then defeated by Sen. John McCain of Arizona, the eventual nominee, one week later in New Hampshire.Even though he's only made cameo appearances so far in Iowa, Romney is tied with businessman and former Godfather's Pizza CEO Herman Cain for the top spot in the two most recent polls of Hawkeye State Republicans. Romey was at 24% in a CNN/Time/ORC International poll conducted in late October, holding a 3-point margin over Cain, and he was at 23% in a Des Moines Register survey also conducted late last month, with Cain at 22%.Some strategists say Romney doesn't need to win Iowa, considering that he's been the overwhelming front-runner in New Hampshire in just about every poll conducted over the past year. And some in Iowa agree."I don't think he has to win here. A second, third place, I think, would be fine for him. He does have a solid infrastructure here in people that support him," said Becky Beach, an Iowa GOP activist who's undecided on CNN's "John King, USA" last week.But someone who knows the Romney campaign quite well says Romney's problem is not just tactical but is strategic, and the former Massachusetts governor shouldn't make strategic decisions based on tactical considerations.
