Top White House staffer David Axelrod indicated Sunday that the first stages of President Obama s 2012 re-election effort will start in the coming months , with Mr. Axelrod himself leaving the administration to begin the work .
Sometime in the late winter or early spring I ll be coming back here to Chicago and beginning to work on that project , said Mr. Axelrod , a White House senior adviser .
Mr. Axelrod was a top strategist in Mr. Obama s successful 2004 Senate campaign and in his 2008 presidential victory , including the come-from-behind defeat of the consensus favorite , Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton .
The adviser s announcement on Fox News Sunday follows recent speculation about whether Mr. Obama would be the Democrats best candidate in 2012 , considering the party s major losses in the midterm elections and the administration s failure to improve the lagging U.S. economy and help create more jobs .
Despite a rough first two years , Mr. Obama still appears to be the Democratic front-runner .
Mrs. Clinton has said repeatedly she will not run in 2012 or 2016 .
Since the Nov. 4 elections in which Republicans picked up 61 House and six Senate seats , along with big gains on state levels , political analysts have repeatedly pointed out that Republican Ronald Reagan and Democrat Bill Clinton , like Mr. Obama , suffered big defeats in their first midterm elections and had approval ratings at the time of less than 45 percent .
Yet both won a second term .
Even former House Speaker Newt Gingrich , a potential 2012 Republican presidential candidate , remarked on the president s enduring strength Sunday and predicted the economy will improve over the next two years .
He s not beaten , he said on NBC s Meet the Press .
This president has enormous capacity to recover .
I think the economy will actually get marginally better over the next year , and he and the House Republicans will fight over who did it .
Mr. Axelrod s move to Chicago would allow him to return to his and Mr. Obama s hometown and live full time with his family .
The departure of Mr. Axelrod , a reporter-turned-political strategist , would mark the latest high-ranking administration official to leave the White House , though not , in his instance , Mr. Obama s employment .
White House Budget Director Peter Orszag left in August , followed in September by Christina Romer , chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers , then in October by White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel .
Lawrence H. Summers , director of the White House s National Economic Council , is returning to Harvard after this year .
