When President Obama speaks about campaign contributions , it s hard to know which is worse : his hypocrisy or his mendacity .
Let s start with the latter .
In his weekly radio address on Saturday , the president went on about the supposed effects of the Supreme Court s January decision in the Citizens United case , which loosened restrictions on certain types of corporate political activity .
Mr. Obama warned of a corporate takeover of our democracy .
With plenty of melodrama , he complained about a flood of attack ads run by shadowy groups .
He even claimed , You don t know if it s a foreign-controlled corporation .
Mr. Obama surely knows his talking points are nonsense .
His claim about foreign contributions repeatedly has been proved false .
The Supreme Court specifically wrote it was not addressing the law s current ban on contributions from foreign nationals .
Federal law bans all foreign nationals from contributing either directly or indirectly to any candidate or political party in connection with a Federal , State , or local election .
It also bans all foreign nationals from making an expenditure , independent expenditure or disbursement for an electioneering communication , explained the Heritage Foundation s Hans von Spakovsky in February after the Citizens United decision .
This ban includes foreign corporations , since the term foreign nationals is defined to include individuals , foreign governments , foreign political parties and corporations organized under the laws or having -LRB- their -RRB- principal place of business in a foreign country .
Then there s Mr. Obama s hypocrisy .
Even though he said in his radio address that we re going to continue to fight for reform and transparency , his 2008 campaign was notorious for rejecting reform , eschewing transparency and purportedly taking money from foreign sources .
Whereas John McCain s presidential campaign listed all contributors , the Obama campaign did not release the names of contributors of under $ 200 at a time . .
The McCain campaign used an address verification system to pre-screen online donations to catch illegalities ; the Obama campaign refused .
The Obama campaign was caught accepting untraceable donations via prepaid credit cards , with the donations listed under names such as Good Will , Doodad Pro , Saddam Hussein , Della Ware , Idiot Savant and even Hbkjb jkbkj , as well as from foreign locales ranging from Argentina to Zacatecas .
The campaign claimed it caught and returned these contributions after the fact , but in many cases this could not be verified .
Despite anti-business propaganda from the White House , U.S. corporate contributions to our nation s political life are important because they give a policy voice to those who generate economic growth and create jobs .
