President Barack Obama apparently thinks politics is no laughing matter , even when he s staring down a comedian .
Obama barely cracked any jokes during an appearance Wednesday on The Daily Show despite host Jon Stewart s attempts to draw out the president s humorous side with a few of his own snarky wisecracks .
Less than a week before the critical Nov. 2 congressional elections , Obama said he hopes Democratic lawmakers who made tough votes will be rewarded with another term in office .
He promised more accomplishments in the two years left on his own term in the Oval Office and urged people to vote _ early if they can .
Stewart asked how the political environment got to the point that Democrats seem to be running on Please , baby , one more chance just two years after Obama ran a successful presidential campaign built around very high rhetoric , hope and change .
Are you disappointed in how it s gone ? .
asked the Comedy Central satirist .
Obama seemed to suggest that he wasn t disappointed .
He said his advisers had told him during the euphoria of his 2008 election to enjoy this now because two years from now folks are going to be frustrated .
That is , in fact , what s happening .
He listed as reasons a 9.6 percent unemployment rate , sinking housing values and an economy that is growing but not fast enough .
But Obama said his administration has also stabilized the economy , noting it has grown for nine months in a row .
He also signed major health care and financial legislation .
Obama suggested that his administration did so much that we have done things that some folks don t even know about .
The comment seemed to catch Stewart by surprise .
What have you done that we don t know about ? .
he asked .
Are you planning a surprise party for us , filled with jobs and health care ? .
Obama cited legislation extending health care to more children and broadening a national service program as examples .
Over and over again , we have moved forward an agenda that is making a difference in people s lives each and every day , Obama replied .
Is it enough ? .
No. .
And so I expect , and I think most Democrats out there expect , that people want to see more progress .
The interview , which allowed Obama to take his campaign message to the type of audience that gets political news from programs like Stewart s , seemed more wonkish than slapstick .
Stewart pressed Obama on the changed political climate in the country and questioned him about the new health care law .
