President Obama sought to woo another crucial Democratic Party voting bloc Thursday , pitching his administration s achievements to a group of businesswomen at a backyard chat in Seattle just days before critical midterm congressional elections .
The pep talk comes as Mr. Obama has intensified his outreach to key segments of the party s base , including blacks , Hispanics and young voters , in a bid to energize Democratic voters as polls continue to show their Republican counterparts are more motivated to show up on Election Day .
Mr. Obama made his latest pitch to female voters in the middle of a four-day , five-state campaign swing focusing on tight races in the Pacific Northwest and Midwest , including two contests involving embattled female incumbents : Sens. Patty Murray of Washington and Barbara Boxer of California .
In a backyard meeting at a Seattle home Thursday , he argued that his policies have helped female entrepreneurs .
Women-owned businesses have grown significantly faster than small businesses overall .
But one of the challenges still ends up being financing , Mr. Obama told local residents gathered outside a home .
He said the federal government s Small Business Administration is three times more likely to provide loans to women-owned businesses than regular banks have been .
It s clear why Mr. Obama held the event , which coincided with the release of a White House report on how its policies have strengthened opportunities for women .
Recent polls have shown that female voters , a core constituency that helped sweep Mr. Obama and his Democratic allies to office , are far less enthusiastic this time around .
An Associated Press-GfK survey this week found that while female voters still prefer Democrats , the margin of support has eroded : 49 percent of female voters favor Democrats compared with 45 percent who favor Republicans .
In the midterm elections in 2006 , when Democrats captured both houses of Congress , 55 percent of female voters backed Democrats , compared with 43 percent for Republicans .
The president also has made efforts to boost turnout among black and Hispanic voters , both of whom voted for him in overwhelming numbers in 2008 but have been far less enthusiastic this year .
Earlier this week , he held a conference call with black journalists and met with Hispanic reporters at the White House .
Hispanic voters in particular don t appear to be motivated .
A recent Pew Hispanic Center survey showed just half of the key Democratic constituency are certain they will vote in November , compared with 70 percent of all registered voters .
Hispanics still prefer Democrats over Republicans , however , by a margin of 65 percent to 22 percent .
