Turmoil is gripping the presidential campaign of former Utah governor and Obama administration ambassador to China Jon Huntsman .
A 4,000-word article in Politico detailed an internal campaign feud , and commentators say the Huntsman effort is unraveling .
To paraphrase Henry Kissinger , the conflict is so vicious because the stakes are so low .
In Republican primary preference surveys , Mr. Huntsman scores light single digits .
The Intrade futures market gives him a 3 percent chance of being the next president , down from 8 percent when he announced his candidacy in late June .
According to Gallup , he is the least known Republican candidate .
A CNN poll shows his favorable and unfavorable ratings are dwarfed by the response never heard of .
The issue is not whether Mr. Huntsman would make a good president .
He would hands-down do a better job than the current occupant of the White House .
The question is why a long-shot candidacy gets so much media attention .
Part of it is that the press enjoys controversy , and when a campaign appears to be melting down , it s a good story .
But Mr. Huntsman has long been getting favorable press from liberal commentators who tout him as the type of moderate Republicans should support if they weren t in thrall of barbaric Tea Party hordes .
As liberal E .
J. Dionne wrote , Mr. Huntsman represents a less doctrinaire and less angry GOP and is seeking voters who don t take their cues from Fox News and Rush Limbaugh .
Obama political adviser David Plouffe said Mr. Huntsman was the only Republican who made him a wee bit queasy about 2012 .
Obviously , the left believes Mr. Huntsman is the type of candidate who could divide the GOP , which could help President Obama skate back into office for a miserable second term .
Mr. Huntsman has been compared favorably to the late Henry Cabot Lodge , a Massachusetts senator , ambassador to the United Nations and Richard Nixon s running mate in the closely contested 1960 election .
In 1963 , President Kennedy sent Lodge to Saigon as ambassador to South Vietnam , some said to remove a potential competitor for the upcoming presidential race .
The same was said about Mr. Huntsman s posting to China .
Mr. Lodge had no intention of running for president , but Mr. Kennedy s assassination in 1963 and a surprise Lodge write-in victory in the New Hampshire primary vaulted him temporarily to front-runner status .
He was briefly a press darling , contrasting both with liberal New York Gov. Nelson Rockefeller and arch-conservative Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona , but his star soon faded .
