Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. s short-lived 2008 presidential campaign owes more than $ 200,000 in election fines , and the Obama campaign is petitioning federal regulators for advice on whether it is allowed to pay off the bills .
If the Obama for America campaign isn t allowed to transfer the money , then Mr. Biden s campaign will have to start fundraising , because it doesn t have enough funds in the bank , according to a recent election filing .
The request comes two months after an audit by the Federal Election Commission concluded that the Biden campaign had accepted more than $ 100,000 in excessive contributions , including funds spent on airfare that should have been considered a corporate contribution .
Overall , the FEC ordered Mr. Biden s campaign to pay $ 219,005 to the U.S. Treasury , with $ 138,000 due within 30 days of the FEC delivering its final audit report to the Biden campaign .
As of Oct. 1 , the final FEC report had not yet been delivered .
An attorney for the Biden campaign did not return calls last week for an update .
Attorneys for both the Obama and Biden campaigns recently asked the FEC for a formal opinion on whether the Obama campaign can transfer the money to the Biden campaign , or just pay the debt off outright .
Mr. Biden ended his presidential run after a fifth-place showing in the Iowa caucuses .
The FEC audited his campaign because he accepted public financing .
According to the latest FEC filing by Biden for President , the campaign only had $ 82,000 cash on hand by Sept. 30 .
Judith Corley , an attorney for the Obama for America campaign , and William Farah , an attorney for the Biden campaign , wrote in a joint letter to the FEC on Oct. 1 that the FEC opinion will determine whether the Biden campaign will have to raise the money on its ownIn addition to the $ 138,000 owed within 30 days of getting the FEC s final report , the Biden campaign also will have to pay an additional $ 89,500 .
Lawyers said they expect that to happen soon .
In its audit , the FEC said Mr. Biden s campaign took an illegal campaign contribution because it accepted a trip on a corporate jet between New Hampshire and Iowa .
The campaign paid the charter-jet owner , GEH Air Transportation , at a first-class rate , but the FEC said the money should have been paid at a corporate airfare rate , which is more expensive .
The campaign lawyers told the FEC they seek confirmation that the Obama campaign can transfer funds to the Biden campaign , citing a provision in campaign-finance regulations they say allow for unlimited transfers between previous federal campaigns of a federal candidate .
