Black Eyed Peas singer Will.i.am produced the song "Yes We Can" for Obama in 2008.STORY HIGHLIGHTSLos Angeles  -- While some Hollywood A-listers who supported the Obama campaign in 2008 have expressed disappointment with his presidency in recent months, tickets for three Obama fundraisers in Los Angeles Thursday sold quickly, organizers said. Celebrity frustrations vented in interviews have included criticism of President Obama's handling of the war in Afghanistan, budget cuts, the Gulf oil disaster, Guantanamo detainees and gay rights. "They are stopping short of saying 'I'm not going to vote for him,'" Variety Deputy Editor Ted Johnson said in a CNN interview this month. "They still see Obama as kind of the defense against a Republican party that has gone even further to the right." Several thousand people have paid up to $2,500 to attend an Obama campaign rally at the Sony Pictures lot, where actor-comedian Jamie Foxx and singer Jason Mraz will entertain. When the 60 tickets for a dinner with President Obama on the Sony Pictures lot sold out at $35,800 each, a second dinner was added at a Westwood restaurant. Actor Matt Damon, who campaigned hard for Barack Obama three years ago, told CNN's Piers Morgan last month that he was "just a little bummed out" by President Obama's lack of success in delivering the change he promised. Damon criticized Obama for not once using the word "poverty" in this year's state of the union address while "you got millions of people languishing in it." "I appreciate that he is a deep thinker," Damon said. "I do appreciate that about him. He's a brilliant guy, but I definitely wanted more." Documentary filmmaker Michael Moore, on HLN's "The Joy Behar Show" in April, said while Obama "is a man with a good heart," he wishes "he'd start listening to himself." Moore expressed frustration that Obama reversed his promise to close the Guantanamo prison. "And I think people thought that things were going to move faster," Moore said. "You know, they get a health care bill passed. They tell everybody now we have universal health care and then people go to get help and they find out oh, there`s no help, not until 2014." Actor-director Robert Redford, who spends much of his time on environmental causes, criticized the Obama administration last summer for being "caught off guard" by the Gulf oil disaster. Black Eyed Peas singer Will.I.Am, who produced the song "Yes We Can" in tribute to Obama in 2008, told the New York Times in January that while he did not feel disappointed, "I feel like, Argggh!. Speak louder!. I feel like, Do something!." Wil.I.Am also posted a message on his Twitter account last month criticizing the U.S. involvement in Libya.
