President Obama is turning his focus to the economy and Iraq this week.STORY HIGHLIGHTSSpecial coverage of President Obama's speech starts at 7 p.m. ET Tuesday, live on CNN and CNN.com, followed by Obama's address at 8.   -- President Obama's vacation may have provided a much needed recharge as he jumps back into thorny issues this week.  Coming off a 10-day trip to Martha's Vineyard, Obama turns his attention to the economy and Iraq. The economy is the No. 1 issue for voters, polls show, and as the midterm elections near, it's becoming increasingly clear that what the administration dubbed the "summer of recovery" has not yet met the public's expectations. In an effort to take control of the narrative, Obama addressed the media after an economic meeting, criticizing Senate Republicans for blocking legislation intended to help small businesses and reiterating his administration's focus on pushing the economy forward. "Small business employers and the communities that rely on them -- they don't have time for political games," Obama told reporters at the White House. "Holding this bill hostage is directly detrimental to our economic growth." CNNMoney: Small business jobs bill stuck in Senate If there ever was a week where the public was reminded the economy is still in turmoil, it was while Obama was on vacation.A report released last week showed that existing homes sales in July plunged to their lowest level in 15 years. House Minority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, called for the resignation of Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, economic adviser Larry Summers and the rest of Obama's economic team. Boehner calls for Obama to fire Geithner New home sales also took a beating -- dropping to their lowest point since the Commerce Department started tracking them in 1963. The rest of the week held no better news. On Thursday, the four-week moving average of jobless claims rose to a nine-month high and on Friday, a report showed that the gross domestic product grew just 1.6 percent. "We anticipated that the recovery was slowing. The economy is still growing, but it's not growing as fast as it needs to," Obama said Sunday on "NBC Nightly News." "There are a whole host of measures we could take, no single element of which is a magic bullet, but cumulatively, can start continuing to build momentum for the recovery," he said. In a glimmer of good news for the administration, USA Today reported Monday that a study by two prominent economists backs up the White House's claim that the stimulus program created nearly 3 million jobs, avoiding "what could have been called Great Depression 2.0." Later Monday, Obama shifts his focus to Iraq. He'll meet with veterans wounded in Iraq at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. 
