President Barack Obama addresses the National Council of La Raza annual conference Monday in Washington.STORY HIGHLIGHTS -- America's immigration system is broken, but only a bipartisan political movement can fix it, President Barack Obama said Monday. "The idea of doing things on my own is very tempting, I promise you, not just on immigration reform. But that's not how our system works. That's not how our democracy functions," Obama told the National Council of La Raza. Speaking at the organization's annual conference in Washington, Obama said passing immigration reform measures will require support from both sides of the aisle in Congress.  "Let's be honest, I need a dance partner here, and the floor is empty," he said. Audience members greeted Obama with a standing ovation, and responded to his discussion of immigration reform by chanting, "Yes you can, yes you can." "I need you to keep building a movement for change outside of Washington, one they can't stop, one that's greater than this community," Obama told them. The speech comes at a critical time for Obama, who is trying to drum up support among Latino voters in the run-up to the 2012 election. "Feel free to keep the heat on me and the heat on Democrats. But here's the thing you should know, the Democrats and your president are with you, don't get confused about that," he said Monday. La Raza is the largest national Latino civil rights and advocacy organization in the United States, and its meetings regularly draw top political leaders. Its leader Monday praised Obama's efforts to help Latinos and lauded much of the president's work from the White House, particularly his appointment of Hilda Solis as labor secretary and Sonia Sotomayor as a Supreme Court justice. "While we may not always agree, Hispanics do have a voice in the administration, and the Latino community does have the president's ear," said Janet Murguia, president of La Raza, which translates literally as "The Race." But she went on to mention immigration, saying that "unfinished business" remains for Obama. "Virtually everyone in this room has been affected by our nation's broken immigration system and the record number of deportations," she said. Obama defended his administration's approach to deportations. "I swore an oath to uphold the laws on the books. That doesn't mean I don't know very well the real pain and heartbreak that deportations cause. I share your concerns and I understand them," he said Monday. "We work every day to make sure we are enforcing flawed laws in the most humane possible way." He also criticized Republicans for not supporting the DREAM Act, which would offer illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. before they turned 16 the chance to become lawful permanent U.S. residents if they meet certain conditions. 
