U.S. President Barack Obama blended pomp and ceremony with diplomacy Tuesday on the second full day of his weeklong trip to Europe, meeting at 10 Downing Street with British Prime Minister David Cameron and attending a state dinner at Buckingham Palace to exchange toasts with Queen Elizabeth II. The president and first lady also toured Buckingham Palace earlier in the day and visited Westminster Abbey, where crowds that had gathered along the roads outside cheered their arrival. Obama will hold bilateral talks with Cameron on Wednesday and address the British Parliament in a speech described by a top aide as an anchor for the European trip, which began in Ireland on Monday and goes on to France for the G-8 summit and Poland. Ben Rhodes, the deputy national security advisor for strategic communications, said Obama would reaffirm that the U.S.-British alliance and NATO are "the cornerstone of global security and the extension of the democratic values that we share." "The United States and the United Kingdom, along with our allies, are the ones who shoulder particular burdens for global security," Rhodes told reporters. "We see that in Afghanistan. We see that in our efforts against al Qaeda. We see that of course today in Libya."On Tuesday, a small group of protesters shouted at Obama and Cameron before they entered the prime minister's residence without speaking to reporters. About 20 minutes later, the pair emerged and left in the presidential limo. Cameron talked up the two countries' closeness the night before the Obama visit officially began, calling the relationship "essential" and saying there is an "incredible alignment of views" between 10 Downing Street and the White House. A visit to 10 Downing Street The two leaders were expected to discuss issues ranging from Libya and the Arab Spring uprisings to policy in Afghanistan and Pakistan and the Israel-Palestinian conflict, a senior British government official said Monday in a briefing with reporters. Cameron and Obama did not have a "shopping list" of issues they must cover, the official said, asking not to be named talking about private discussions. At the state dinner, the more than 170 guests, including royalty, celebrities and politicians, sat at large U-shaped table with Obama and the queen at the head. Inside look at the state dinner  Queen Elizabeth toasted the "tried, tested and yes, special relationship between our two countries," along with the "continued health, happiness and prosperity" of the people of the United States, as well as the first couple. The orchestra then played the U.S. national anthem. Obama, dressed in a dark tuxedo and tails for the white tie dinner, placed his hand over his heart. For his toast, Obama mentioned the queen's long reign and the enduring links between the two countries. 
