Obama tour of Honolulu includes his grandparents' apartment, birthplace, schoolStudents at school Obama attended said he inspires them to believe anything is possibleWhy are Obamas spending Christmas in Hawaii?. Maybe the 70-degree weather  Honolulu, Hawaii  -- Jack Christensen often walks away from the Baskin-Robbins with fewer followers than he had when he got there. "We lose some people in there," Christensen told us with a smile. "They go in and start having ice cream instead of going on to the other stops." To walk with Christensen is to retrace the steps of young Barry Obama, from the ice cream parlor where he worked in his youth to the nearby basketball courts where he developed his passion for the game. "And they're important because they really show the environment -- that he had a great advantage over other inner-city kids where there's lots of graffiti and litter, and other problems," Christensen said of the courts. "And we have this wide open space in the sunshine and you realize he could play basketball almost any day of the year there."  At the moment, Christensen gives his walking Obama tour just one day a month. But he is switching to three days a month in the new year because of its popularity, which could grow even more now that the president is in Hawaii for Christmas break. "Everybody gets really excited," Christensen said. "You know, 'local boy makes good' and the media plays it up and all that stuff. So it's a big event when he comes to town." Christensen, or "Uncle Jack," as he prefers to be called, takes his Obama tour guests past the apartment building where young Obama lived with his grandparents.  "He lived with his grandparents, the Dunhams, in Apartment 1008. So in a 12-story building, you count down three apartments from the left and that's where Barry Obama, as he was called at the time, lived with his grandparents." Up the street is the hospital where Obama was born, and not too far away, the Punahou School, where he went to school and played on the basketball team."This is the heart of his adolescent development. This is the environment in which he got that great education,' Christensen says of the school. "You can tell from reading his books that he had really good English teachers at Punahou." We visited the campus during a recent trip to Hawaii, and students and teachers at the school now call Obama an inspiration. "You get this feeling I can do whatever I want, you know, nothing is going to really hold me back," said student Calla Chang. Daniel Dangaran, enjoying a break from chemistry lab to talk with us, said there was no downside to Obama's success. 
