President Obama takes a question at a town hall in Elkhart, Indiana, earlier this year. – President Barack Obama heads back to a familiar place today: Elkhart, Indiana. Today's visit by the president will be the fourth time in the past 15 months that Obama's appeared in the northern Indiana city, known as the RV capital of the world.On May 4, 2008, then-Sen. Obama of Illinois made a short stop in Elkhart, just days before the Indiana primary. At the time, Obama was in a fierce fight with Hillary Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination. Obama's campaign bus pulled up to Riverview Elementary School. He stepped out, shook hands, signed autographs and then played a quick game of basketball.Days later, Obama narrowly lost Indiana's Democratic presidential primary to Clinton.Obama returned to Elkhart on August 6. Hillary Clinton had dropped out of the race two months earlier, and Obama was in the heat of a general election battle with Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona. Joining Obama was Indiana's popular Democratic senator, Evan Bayh.Obama took aim at his opponent. "John McCain started running a TV ad yesterday saying that Washington is broken. No kidding. It's taken him 26 years in Washington to figure that out. But here's the thing, Elkhart: I have trouble squaring that statement with Sen. McCain that Washington is broken and that politicians have failed."Come November 4, Barack Obama narrowly won Indiana, becoming the first Democrat to take the state in a presidential election since 1964.Fast forward to February 9 of this year, with President Obama in a battle to win passage of his economic stimulus package. He took his fight to an Elkhart town hall. "Now is the time to act," he said. "That's why I'm calling on Congress to pass this bill immediately. Folks here in Elkhart and all across America need help right now. They can't afford to keep waiting for folks in Washington to get this done."The president came close to Elkhart in May, when he gave the commencement address at Notre Dame in nearby South Bend, Indiana.Now he's back in a town suffering from the economic recession, with an unemployment rate nearing 20 percent - a point addressed Tuesday by the White House."Obviously the people in Elkhart know firsthand the type of economic devastation that this country has seen over the past many, many months," said White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs.The Republican National Committee hit back hours before the president's Wednesday event. "As Obama Visits Elkhart, Indiana For 4th Time In 15 Months, Citizens There Realize Promises Made Are Promises Broken," they said in a memo sent to reporters.