Many Democrats challenge the tax deal with RepublicansPresident Obama chafes at claims he backs down too quicklyPolitical purity doesn't always bring what's best for the country, Obama saysObama says diversity of the country means compromise on major issues  Washington  -- In a rare display of frustration, President Barack Obama insisted Tuesday that liberal Democrats were holding him to an unfair standard of achievement by complaining he has conceded too much to political opponents. At a hastily arranged news conference on his deal with Republicans to extend tax cuts and jobless benefits, Obama rejected protests by Democrats that the agreement announced Monday amounted to a political defeat. "Because it's a big, diverse country and people have a lot of complicated positions, it means that in order to get stuff done, we're going to compromise," Obama said. Both the landmark health care bill passed by Democrats earlier this year and the tax agreement brought benefits to the American people in the face of strong political opposition, Obama noted. His job, he said, is to move past party politicking to do what's best for the country. Otherwise, "people will have the satisfaction of a having a purist position and no victories for the American people," Obama said. "That can't be the measure of how we think about our public service," he said. "That can't be the measure of what it means to be a Democrat." Despite Obama's comments, Democratic legislators continued to challenge the White House agreement with Republicans.  Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio said he believed Obama gave up too soon without pushing the Republicans for more concessions, while Rep. Bill Pascrell of New Jersey said the agreement showed that "Democrats in the House have obviously become irrelevant." At the news conference, Obama characterized such criticism from his own party as short-sighted. Discussing the health care reform bill that overhauled health insurance in the country but has failed to generate broad public support, Obama sounded incredulous that fellow Democrats could criticize the accomplishment as incomplete for failing to secure a government-funded public insurance option. "So I pass a signature piece of legislation where we finally get health care for all Americans, something Democrats had been fighting for " for decades, but because it lacked a public option, "that somehow that was a sign of weakness and compromise," Obama said. By comparison, he noted that when Social Security started under President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, it only applied to "orphans and widows." "You did not qualify," he told reporters questioning his willingness to fight for policies he favors. Obama also noted that Medicare, the government-run health insurance for senior citizens, also started much smaller than the eventual program today. "Under the criteria that you just set out, each of those were betrayals of abstract ideals," Obama said.
