Obama plans to meet with congressional leaders soon on extending tax cutsTuesday's vote was a "shellacking" for Democrats, Obama says Obama defends his policies, but admits people "aren't feeling that progress"GOP wins aren't a mandate to "re-litigate" past legislation, Obama says  Washington  -- President Barack Obama on Wednesday blamed the anemic economy for the "shellacking" his fellow Democrats experienced in this week's midterm elections, but he acknowledged his policies hadn't done enough to bring down high unemployment. His administration has "stabilized" the economy and spurred private-sector hiring, "but people all across America aren't feeling that progress," Obama said in a news conference the day after Republicans seized majority control of the House and whittled down the Democratic majority in the Senate. He called the results a "shellacking" for him and said: "I've got to take direct responsibility for the fact that we have not made as much progress as we need to make." "If right now we had 5 percent unemployment instead of 9.6 percent unemployment, then people would have more confidence in those policy choices," Obama said.The president faced reporters a day after voters replaced at least 60 Democrats in the House of Representatives, according to CNN projections, returning control of the chamber to Republicans, who lost it in 2006. In the Senate, Democrats lost at least six seats but retained control of the chamber, according to the projections based on analysis of exit polling. Asked directly about the claims by Republicans, especially Tea Party conservatives, that his policies are taking the country in the wrong direction, Obama cited the economy's reversal from monthly job losses to private sector job growth since he took office as proof things are improving. But he also conceded, in reference to an auto-related campaign analogy, that the argument could be made that "we're stuck in neutral." Obama said he's looking at "all ideas that are on the table" to boost economic growth after the deepest recession since the 1930s, and won't dismiss any proposal "because they're Democrat or Republican." At the same time, Obama said it would be a "misreading" of the election results if anyone believed the American people want to spend the next two years trying to "relitigate" his administration's overhaul of health care or other major legislation of his first two years in office. Republicans throughout the campaign blasted Obama's signature health care overhaul, the Affordable Care Act, after voting all but unanimously against it in Congress. Obama called the process of passing the bill "an ugly mess" and "something that I regret," but added: "The outcome was a good one." He called for the upcoming lame-duck session of Congress, in which Democrats will still hold majorities in both chambers until the end of the year, to address significant issues such as extending Bush-era tax cuts for most Americans, extending unemployment benefits for jobless Americans and repealing the "don't ask, don't tell" policy that bans openly gay and lesbian soldiers. 
