President Obama goes one-on-one with Larry King on Thursday night to talk about the oil spill, economic turmoil and war. Watch"Larry King Live," at 9 p.m. ET.  Washington  -- President Obama told CNN's Larry King on Thursday that he is furious about the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, but his job is to fix things instead of just yelling at people. In a White House interview for the 25th anniversary of "Larry King Live" on CNN, Obama called the oil spill an unprecedented crisis for the country but added it could have been worse. Despite the challenges posed by the oil spill, global threats involving North Korea and Iran and political battles with Congress, Obama called being president "the best job on Earth." "It's an extraordinary privilege to wake up every day and know you have the opportunity to serve the American people and make life better," he said. King noted that the latest CNN Poll of Polls showed Obama at 48 percent support among the American people, which the president called pretty good, considering the circumstances. "Given everything that's going on, my poll numbers are all right," Obama said. Asked about his anger toward the oil spill situation, Obama said he was furious because "somebody didn't think through the consequences of their actions." Obama also said he had not seen enough of a rapid response from BP to the environmental catastrophe. "I would love to just spend a lot of my time venting and yelling at people, but that's not the job I was hired to do," Obama said. "My job is to solve this problem and ultimately this isn't about me and how angry I am. Ultimately this is about the people down in the Gulf who are being impacted and what am I doing to make sure that they're able to salvage their way of life." Oil giant BP caused the spill and is responsible for paying the costs, Obama said, adding: "My job is to make sure they're being held accountable." In the wide-ranging interview to be broadcast Thursday night, Obama also acknowledged Israel's security concerns while questioning the Israeli blockade of Gaza following this week's military raid on a flotilla of ships carrying relief supplies to the Palestinian territory. The president called the incident that killed nine people, including a Turkish-American man, a "tragic situation" that could serve as "an opportunity" to advance the Middle East peace process."On the oil spill, Obama said BP has the best technology and know-how to try to stop the leak, but the president indicated that the spill could continue until relief wells being drilled now are completed in August. Despite the havoc that the oil spill is causing to Gulf fisheries and fragile wetlands, Obama said he still supports off-shore drilling if it can be done safely.
