The president took questions Monday from YouTube users that were submitted beginning last week when he gave his first State of the Union address.Washington  - President Barack Obama appeared live on the computer screens of Americans across the country Monday, answering questions they had posed. In an interview distributed on YouTube, the popular Internet video site, Obama lobbied for his job creation and clean energy plans while disputing one questioner's premise that he broke a campaign promise to conduct business in the open. "People know more about the inner workings of this White House, the meetings we have," than they did under previous administrations, Obama said in response to a question from a man named Warren. "We have followed through on a lot of what we said, so Warren's mistaken in how he characterized it."At the same time, Obama acknowledged that some later negotiations on health care reform occurred out of the public eye. He said that would change as he works with Congress in "the last five yards before we get to the goal-line."According to YouTube, 55,340 people asked 11,695 questions for the interview. Voters then cast 643,507 votes to determine the top questions. The White House received no advance information about the questions to be asked, Grove wrote in a blog.The questions covered major policy issues including the economy, terrorism, clean energy, health care and education costs.Asked by a small business owner about what kind of help to expect, Obama outlined the tax relief contained in his 2011 budget proposal released earlier in the day. A jobs bill contained in the budget would eliminate capital gains taxes for small businesses and provide tax credits for hiring new employees, the president said.He added a plug for health care reform, saying "nobody benefits more from our health care proposals than small businesses," which would get tax credits for providing health insurance for workers and realize lower costs by purchasing coverage through a proposed insurance exchange.Another caller noted the federal bailout of large banks while people continue to have trouble getting home loans and other credit. Obama said a government loan modification program reached 4 million people so far, but warned that decreased home values mean continued problems for people who owe more than their property is worth. "What we're trying to do is increase transparency and force all the banks to tell us exactly what are you doing with customers who want to stay in their homes," Obama said. Asked about rising tuition that makes colleges and universities unaffordable, Obama said steps have been taken to provide more grants and help relieve student loan debt. At the same time, he said, colleges and universities have to cut costs.
