President Barack Obama may be on an immigration reform kick, but when it comes to cuisine, he's all about the traditional American fare. "I've had those and they're very good…so you've got a bet," Obama said. Cuban Fritas are a sweet and spicy Cuban hamburger . Obama sat down with Moreno as part of his recent attempt to reinvigorate the debate over immigration reform. He kicked off the week in El Paso, Texas with a speech focused on the contentious issue, and spoke at the National Hispanic Prayer Breakfast on Thursday. During the interview with Moreno, Obama reiterated his message that now is the right time to pass an immigration reform bill, and again called on Republicans to get behind the effort. "The majority of Democrats are supportive of comprehensive immigration reform," Obama said. "The President of the United States wants comprehensive immigration reform. What we haven't had are partners in the Republican party who are willing to work with us on this issue."Obama's renewed push has been met with defiance from Republicans, who argue that passing an immigration reform bill must be put on hold until border security is improved. But the president has steadfastly defended his administration's efforts to secure the border, and told Moreno that conditions have improved."We've now doubled our efforts at the borders. And we've seen much less traffic coming over the borders illegally. Now is the time for us to go ahead and finish the job and my hope is that we'll start seeing more Republican partners get involved in this issue," Obama said. But critics say Obama's timing has more to do with the upcoming 2012 presidential election, and accuse the president of pandering to the Hispanic community, an increasingly powerful voting bloc. On Friday Rep. Joe Walsh, R-Illinois, criticized Obama's recent effort, asking the president why "[he isn't] serious about securing the border" during remarks on the House floor."You said the other day in Texas that Republicans wouldn't be satisfied unless you built a moat with alligators. You know what Mr. President, a moat might not be a bad idea and I wonder how many of these alligators it would take to secure the border," Walsh said as he held up a rubber alligator. "What will satisfy most Americans is if you quit campaigning on this issue and finally govern on it," Walsh added. Obama has brushed off the criticism, insisting that immigration reform is an issue he has consistently pushed for throughout his time in office. "I don't know how they can call it campaign rhetoric. I've been talking about this since the day after I was elected the first time in 2008," Obama told Moreno.
