President Obama met with troops Tuesday afternoon at Fort Bliss in Texas, a brief stopover that sets the stage for an Oval Office address in which the president will formally mark the end of combat operations in Iraq. During the visit, Obama offered the troops "congratulations on a job well done." He said the U.S. military will continue to pursue terrorists but that the combat phase is over. The president hits the milestone as a political stalemate grips Baghdad and the threat of violence looms. Though the last combat brigade has left the country, the White House is trying to manage expectations for the final product of a war Obama vocally opposed as a state and U.S. senator. The White House says it has no plans to declare "mission accomplished" Tuesday night, but describes the "transition" to Iraqi responsibility as a key step. "This is not a victory lap," White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs told Fox News. "You're not going to see any 'Mission Accomplished' banners that'll be unfurled.  We understand that violence will still continue. We understand we still have troops there." Obama will formally end a combat mission that lasted more than seven years and left more than 4,400 U.S. troops dead. The upcoming speech has triggered speculation about the extent to which Obama will acknowledge his predecessor's role in laying the groundwork for withdrawal. Obama, who opposed the 2007 troop surge, called former President Bush while aboard Air Force One Tuesday en route to Texas, according to White House spokesman Bill Burton. He described the conversation as "private" and lasting a "few minutes." Gibbs did not answer questions about whether Obama would credit Bush in his speech. But Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, in prepared remarks, urged Obama to "reject your own campaign rhetoric" about the surge, and to continue basing U.S. involvement on "conditions on the ground." "This president could very well find himself negotiating a new security agreement next year," McConnell said. Sen. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., credited both presidents for their resolve on the war. "The remarkable turnaround in Iraq is due to many factors, but it would not have been possible without the courageous decision of President Bush to launch the surge in 2007 -- initiating a set of policies that President Obama, to his great credit, has sustained and built upon to bring us to this day," Lieberman said in a written statement. The White House sees Tuesday's benchmark as a promise kept and has gone to great lengths to promote it as such, dispatching Vice President Joe Biden to Iraq to preside over a formal change-of-command ceremony and raising Tuesday night's remarks to the level of an Oval Office address, something Obama has only done once before.
