President Obama's inner circle had "voiced doubts" about the plan to raid Usama bin Laden's compound, the president said in an interview, stressing that the few who knew about the mission were not at all certain bin Laden lived there. Discussing for the first time the many risks involved in the mission, Obama stressed that the operation was a gamble up until the very end. "At the end of the day, this was still a 55/45 situation. I mean, we could not say definitively that bin Laden was there," the president told CBS' "60 Minutes." Obama said those on his national security team who questioned the plan provided "invaluable" advice, because their skepticism resulted in a "sharper" mission -- and their concerns reflected his own. "When I finally did make the decision, I was making it based on the very best information. It wasn't as if any of the folks who were voicing doubts were voicing something that I wasn't already running through in my own head," Obama said. He said the mission looked "promising" from the start. As has been revealed in several briefings and interviews over the past week, U.S. officials began to feel more confident that a high-level Al Qaeda operative like bin Laden was living there the more they found out about the compound in northern Pakistan. But the president noted that when the ball started rolling on the operation last August, officials had "no direct evidence" that bin Laden was living there. The president said there would have been "significant consequences" had bin Laden not been there. "Obviously, we're going into the sovereign territory of another country and landing helicopters and conducting a military operation. And so if it turns out that it's a wealthy, you know, prince from Dubai who's in this compound -- and, you know, we've sent Special Forces in -- we've got problems," Obama said. But he said his No. 1 concern was whether or not the U.S. team of Navy SEALs could make it out safely. He suggested past military failures that led to loss of U.S. life weighed on him and he worried about the possibility of somebody on the compound setting off explosives, among other hazards. "I mean, you think about Black Hawk Down. You think about what happened with the Iranian rescue," Obama said. "I am very sympathetic to the situation for other presidents where you make a decision. You're making your best call, your best shot." Obama said he ultimately made the call to green-light the bin Laden operation because the potential benefit outweighed the risk. "I said to myself that if we have a good chance of -- not completely defeating but badly disabling Al Qaeda -- then it was worth both the political risks as well as the risks to our men," the president said.
