Like Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal , who immediately touched off presidential talk when he won his state 's governorship , Haley 's primary victory sets off talk of a possible vice presidential campaign in 2012 .
As an Indian-American woman from an early primary state , she would bring a combination of diversity and conservatism that many in the GOP have been seeking .
Little known even in her own state just months ago , Haley got a crucial boost with early support from former vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin and the tea party movement .
Along the way , she weathered rumors of infidelity and questions about her religious and ethnic background .
During the past month , state Sen. Jake Knotts , a self-described `` redneck , '' called Haley a `` raghead '' and questioned whether she was a Christian .
Earlier , a lobbyist and a blogger both claimed to have had affairs with her .
Haley , a married mother of two , categorically denied the unsubstantiated claims and made it clear she was baptized in the Methodist church .
A backlash against the state 's notorious rough-and-tumble political gamesmanship propelled Haley to within 4,800 votes of winning the June 8 primary outright .
Haley grew up in a state where black and white define history and divide politics even beauty contests .
At 5 , Haley 's parents entered her and her sister , Simran , in the Little Miss Bamberg Pageant and they were the only children of Indian immigrants in town .
`` They had a Little Miss White Bamberg and they had a Little Miss African-American Bamberg , and , you know they disqualified us because they did n't know what category to put us in , '' Haley said .
Her father , who wears the traditional Sikh turban , was a biology professor at a historically black college and her mother taught middle school social studies .
By the time Haley was in high school , she was keeping the books at the family 's upscale clothing business .
`` What was frustrating to me is I felt like government should strengthen businesses , '' Haley said .
`` You know , we were paying too much in taxes .
The worker 's comp rates were unbelievable .
`` She spoke with some female lawmakers and decided to run for the state House .
In a GOP runoff race against a 30-year incumbent , Haley confronted fliers that played up her family name , Randhawa .
She won that 2004 election and easily won re-election in 2006 and 2008 .
Haley aligned herself with Gov. Mark Sanford , whose bickering with the Legislature left him with few fans in the Statehouse .
She riled the GOP House leadership in 2008 by bucking their resistance to restrictions on payday lending companies and by pushing for more recorded votes .
