The former senior adviser to George W. Bush told The Daily Telegraph of London that he questioned whether Americans thought the former Alaska governor had the `` gravitas '' for the `` most demanding job in the world .
`` It was a stronger stand than Rove took earlier in the week in addressing Palin 's prospects for 2012 .
Rove previously also spoke out about Republican Senate candidate Christine O'Donnell in Delaware , saying she could n't win the general election , but he later backpedaled on the statement .
Noting Palin 's upcoming TV series on Alaska wilderness , Rove told the Telegraph it was unlikely that voters would regard someone starring in a reality show as presidential material .
`` With all due candor , appearing on your own reality show on the Discovery Channel , I am not certain how that fits in the American calculus of ` that helps me see you in the Oval Office , ' '' Rove told the Telegraph , which said he remains a considerable force on the U.S. political scene .
Rove cited the promotional clip for `` Sarah Palin 's Alaska , '' saying it could be especially detrimental to any political campaign as it features the mother of five in the great outdoors saying `` I would rather be doing this than in some stuffy old political office , '' the Telegraph reported .
The newspaper said Rove also implied that the former vice presidential candidate lacked the stomach for the rigors of a presidential primary campaign .
He said it 's too early to tell if Palin , 46 , would be the wisest choice among the candidates for the party to seize the White House from President Obama in 2012 .
The Telegraph quoted Rove : `` You can make a plausible case for any of them on paper , but it is not going to be paper in 2011 .
It 's going to be blood , it 's going to be sweat and tears , and it 's going to be hard effort .
`` That remark echoed comments Rove made on CBS ' `` Face the Nation '' Sunday : `` Every one of these prospective candidates , if they decide to enter the race , has strengths that they need to work on magnifying and weaknesses that they need to endeavor to overcome or challenges that they need to overcome .
And we do n't know how that 's going to play out , '' Rove said .
But he would n't comment Sunday on Palin 's potential strength .
`` I do n't know if she runs or not and if she would be a formidable candidate .
But , look , there are going to be several geological ages that are going to come and go before the 2012 Republican presidential nomination fight gels , '' Rove said .
