At an appearance alongside House Speaker Nancy Pelosi at a San Francisco fundraiser on Monday , the first lady warned that Republicans were putting up a strong fight to recapture the congressional majority on Nov. 2 .
It 's up to Democrats to prevent that from happening , she said .
`` This is too close , this will be on us , '' she told the crowd of 700 party donors at the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee 's fundraiser .
`` This election , it 's about all we have left to do in the months and years ahead .
`` Obama asked the predominantly female audience to recall the excitement and optimism they felt coming in to the 2008 presidential election , and to try to muster that same enthusiasm this year .
`` That energy we had two years ago , that 's what we need and nothing short of that , '' she said .
Fellow speaker Jill Biden , wife of Vice President Joe Biden , echoed that sentiment , urging Democrats to `` make 10 more calls , send 10 more e-mails , bring 10 more people to the polls .
`` Her appearance on her home turf was one of several tightly controlled public events she has attended during the fall election season .
She has , instead , focused on raising money for Democratic candidates this cycle .
Her relatively low profile reflects the success Republicans have had in making her the face of what they say is the problem the Democrats ' control of the presidency and Congress , and their agenda of health care and financial overhauls .
It is not clear how long Pelosi would lead her party and remain in Congress , whatever the outcome next Tuesday .
Democratic aides say she would seek the speakership if her party defies most predictions and hangs on to the House majority by a few seats .
Lose the House , and it 's unclear whether Pelosi would want or be elected to continue to lead her party in that chamber .
All three high-profile Democrats on Monday acknowledged that times are tough for many Americans , despite what they described as major progress over the past two years .
`` For a lot of folks , change has n't come fast enough , '' Obama said .
`` The truth is , it 's going to take a lot longer to dig us out of this hole than any of us would like .
`` However , she said , `` we 've come much too far to turn back now .
`` The committee has been active throughout California this year in support of a half-dozen promising congressional challengers and potentially vulnerable incumbents an unusually high number for the heavily gerrymandered state .
Obama 's swing through California will continue through Wednesday .
Her scheduled appearances include two Los Angeles events with Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer , who is facing a tough re-election challenge from Republican Carly Fiorina .
