From NBC 's Domenico MontanaroMitt Romney dove into that competitive South Carolina Republican gubernatorial primary by endorsing state Rep. Nikki Haley .
`` Ann and I got to know Nikki Haley during my campaign for president and came away enormously impressed with her as a person of character and as the spokesperson for a new generation of leadership for South Carolina , '' Romney said in a statement released by his PAC .
`` She has a proven conservative record of fighting wasteful spending and advocating for smaller , more efficient government .
I 'm honored to call her my friend and prouder still to endorse her campaign for governor .
`` His PAC is also donating the maximum $ 3,500 primary election contribution to her campaign , and Romney will campaign with her April 1 .
The frontrunners in the race are considered state Attorney General Henry McMaster and Rep. Gresham Barrett with Haley and Lt. Gov. Andre Bauer behind them .
Haley is liked by the right .
Red State endorsed her , and some would argue that Romney needs the endorsement of a bonafide conservative in South Carolina if he wants to win the 2012 Republican presidential nomination .
As we 've pointed out every time we write about Republicans and South Carolina -- no Republican has won the GOP presidential nomination without winning the Palmetto State since 1980 , the first time that primary mattered .
`` I think it will be helpful to her , '' a South Carolina Republican operative tells First Read .
`` It should open some doors on the money front . ''
As to what it could mean -- or not mean -- for Romney in 2012 , the operative added , `` Honestly , I do n't think it will matter much .
2012 is a brand new race .
`` AP notes , `` Her competitors already have picked up endorsements from 2008 presidential hopefuls .
GOP nominee and Arizona Sen. John McCain is backing McMaster ; former Tennessee Sen. Fred Thompson is endorsing Barrett and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee has helped Bauer raise money .
`` The Atlantic 's Marc Ambinder 's take : `` Romney 's Mormon religion is viewed with suspicion by a healthy chunk of the Republican primary electorate in South Carolina , so there 's little downside potential .
but huge upside potential , if Haley wins , becomes popular , and decides to endorse Romney back .
`` Ben Smith writes , `` Mitt Romney broke with his local operation today and endorsed State Senator Nikki Haley for the Republican nomination for governor .
Haley , a relative outsider -- though she was a Sanford ally -- and a woman of South Asian descent is seen by many as a talented politician and the face of the Republican future .
But she 's also facing a tough field of rivals , including Rep. Gresham Barrett , whose consultant , Warren Tompkins , ran Romney 's state campaign .
