The White House on Monday rejected charges that President Obama is traveling on the taxpayer dime to campaign in swing states more frequently than any of his predecessors, saying a new study doesn't take into account that Obama "expanded the political map dramatically" in 2008 so that states not previously considered battlegrounds now are.White House spokesman Jay Carney argued that a Wall Street Journal study that showed Obama has attended 54 events in 11 battleground states over 42 days between Jan.1 and Nov. 17, 2011, includes trips to places like Virginia, in the capital's backyard, and North Carolina. "What happened in 2008 was Barack Obama, then-Senator Obama, expanded the political map dramatically," Carney said. "And every president who's occupied the Oval Office just a few short minutes across the river from Virginia travels to Virginia frequently to hold events."Carney added that when George W. Bush was president, it "was not perceived to be possible that a Democrat could win" Virginia. At the same time, Carney contended, Bush traveled more frequently in the same time period than Obama to battlegrounds like Ohio, Wisconsin and Florida."If every president, whether it's President Obama or his successor, or any successor after that, were to simply say, 'Oh, I can't travel to any state that might be contested in the next election,' then the president would have to spend most of his time here in Washington, D.C. And I don't think that any president should do that," Carney said.According to data compiled by Brendan Doherty, a U.S. Naval Academy assistant professor cited by the Journal, between Jan. 1 and Nov. 17 of his third year in office, Bill Clinton held 40 events over 24 days in the battlegrounds of his time. During the same period of Bush's administration, he held 49 events in 34 days."Obama has certainly ramped up the volume," said Doherty, author of a forthcoming book called "The Rise of the President's Permanent Campaign," told the Journal. The research found that Obama has traveled 11 times to Virginia, 10 to Florida, eight to Pennylvania, seven to North Carolina, and four times to both Ohio and Missouri during the period cited. He also has been to Iowa and Michigan three times and to Nevada twice. He has been once to Indiana and Wisconsin. Last week, Obama traveled to New Hampshire, the 12th battleground state and his 43rd day out of Washington. He heads to Scranton, Pa., on Wednesday for his 56th event.and his 44th day on the trail.
