From NBC's Ali Weinberg  For Las Vegas Mayor Oscar Goodman, President Obama's written explanation of his "don't blow a bunch of cash in Vegas" comment just doesn't cut it. Two days before Obama travels to Nevada to campaign for vulnerable Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Goodman said that he had not yet responded to the president's invitation to meet. Obama must apologize to him personally, Goodman said, or no dice.  "I'm just hoping he's man enough to say, 'Look, I made a mistake, I want to straighten everything out,' and do it in advance of his trip here, then I'd be happy to embrace him," Goodman told Nevada reporters today. "But anything less than that, I'm not interested." Nevada legislators took offense to President Obama's comments at a Feb. 2nd town hall in Nashua, N.H., when he invoked Sin City while praising American thriftiness during hard economic times. "You don't blow a bunch of cash on Vegas when you're trying to save for college," Obama told the crowd. "You prioritize. You make tough choices." Sen. Reid responded to Obama's statement later that day, saying through a release, "The President needs to lay off Las Vegas and stop making it the poster child for where people shouldn't be spending their money."Other Nevada lawmakers like Rep. Dina Titus chimed in, noting that the New Hampshire speech wasn't the first time Obama had alluded to Vegas' extravagant image while encouraging frugality. At a town hall last February in Elkhart, Ind., Obama said big banks shouldn't be able to "get corporate jets, you can't go take a trip to Las Vegas or go down to the Super Bowl on the taxpayer's dime." In a statement earlier this month, Titus wrote, "This pattern of bashing Las Vegas to make a point must stop." Obama responded to Reid's criticism by sending him a letter of explanation. "I hope you know that during my Town Hall today, I wasn't saying anything negative about Las Vegas," Obama wrote. "I was making the simple point that families use vacation dollars, not college tuition money, to have fun." He added that he looked forward to his visit this Friday. When asked in today's daily briefing about Goodman's request for an apology, White House press secretary Robert Gibbs said he had not yet seen Goodman's remarks, but added, "Whether the president wants to help the people of Nevada understand the context of what he said, that will give us something to look for tomorrow."But if Obama doesn't issue a personal mea culpa to Goodman, he may find his visit void of the colorful Vegas mayor.