By Associated PressLast updated at 4:33 p.m.SCRANTON, Pa. -- On the attack, President Barack Obama warned Wednesday of a "massive blow to the economy" if Republicans oppose him over extending a payroll tax cut, as he campaigned for more money in the pockets of U.S. workers — and in his campaign treasury.Obama pressed his case at a campaign-style rally in working-class Scranton, Pa., where he said Republicans had to choose between lower taxes for the wealthy, or a payroll tax cut that would help working Americans."Are you going to cut taxes for the middle class and those who are trying to get into the middle class or are you going to protect massive tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires?." he said. "Are you going to ask a few hundred thousand people who have done very, very well to do their fair share, or are you going to raise taxes for hundreds of millions of people across the country?.""We need to get wealthy Americans to pay their fair share," the president said.Obama was traveling later Wednesday to donor-rich New York City to raise money for his already flush re-election bid, in a day illustrating the dual policy and political demands on the president as the 2012 campaign season nears.Recommended: Gingrich previews his general election fight against Obama Meanwhile on Capitol Hill, Republicans indicated they were prepared to extend the temporary payroll tax cut, but said any extension must be paid for with savings from elsewhere in the budget, even as they opposed Democrats' plan to pay for it by taxing incomes over $1 million. That set up a showdown over how to find mutually acceptable savings before any extension could become law.The full payroll tax of 6.2 percent would be restored if Congress does not act by year's end, increasing taxes on 160 million Americans."If Congress doesn't act to extend this tax cut then most of you, the typical middle-class family, is going to see your taxes go up by $1,000 at the worst possible time," Obama said.Obama was welcomed warmly by a crowd of nearly 2,000 in the Scranton High School gym. At one point the president said that Republicans have sworn an oath not to raise taxes, prompting one man in the crowd to yell loudly: "Give us some names!."In making a case for the consequences of letting the tax cut lapse, Obama offered a bleak assessment, telling his audience: "It would be tough for you. It would also be a massive blow for the economy because we're not fully out of the recession yet."Technically, though, the recession ended in June 2009, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the nonprofit group that determines the beginning and end of recessions. The downturn began in December 2007 and was the longest and deepest since World War II, costing the country about 7.5 million jobs.The recovery has been unusually weak, but the economy is growing again. It expanded 2 percent in the July-September quarter.In selecting Scranton to make his appeal, Obama ventured to the birthplace of Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Bob Casey, the Pennsylvania Democrat who is the author of the payroll tax cut plan expected to come up for a vote in the Senate later this week.Before making remarks, Obama sought to put a face on the beneficiaries of the payroll tax cut by stopping at the home of third-grade teacher Patrick Festa and his wife Donna, a graphic designer, in working-class South Scranton. The three chatted in the family's Christmas-decorated dining room, Obama inquiring about their work and their two high school-aged children.Obama won Pennsylvania with 54 percent of the vote in 2008, but the fragile economy could put the state in play in 2012. Its proximity to Washington and its political importance have made it a favorite stopping place for Obama and Biden. The trip comes as Obama steps up his re-election campaign, rolling out two ads that call on supporters to begin to mobilize.White House press secretary Jay Carney, while conceding that the re-election effort is under way, played down politics as a factor in Obama's Scranton visit."It's part of his responsibility, serving the American people, to get out and be among them and to speak with them about his agenda or her agenda," he said.In New York, Obama was to attend three fundraisers: one at the home of businessman Jack Rosen, chairman of the American Jewish Congress, where tickets begin at $10,000; one at the Greenwich Village restaurant Gotham Bar and Grill at $35,800 per ticket; and a reception at the Sheraton Hotel, where tickets begin at $1,000. The money will be split between the Democratic National Committee and the Obama re-election campaign.Obama also was scheduled to attend a reception celebrating progress on gay rights and the six-month anniversary of New York's approval of gay marriage. Obama has been supportive of gay and lesbian causes but has stopped short of declaring support for gay marriage.© 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.