Speaking on an economic tour of Asian nations, Obama told college students here that the midterm elections back home reflected the "right, obligation and duty" of people to express their unhappiness by voting out the incumbents. The president himself wasn't on the ballot last week, but his Democratic Party took a beating. Republicans won control of the House, eroded the Democratic majority in the Senate and made huge gains in state legislatures. Obama said he will not change his determination to invest money in education, infrastructure and clean energy at a time when the pressures in Washington are to slash spending. But he said the election "requires me to make some midcourse corrections and adjustments." He said how those will play out over the next several months will depend on his talks with Republicans. While Obama's visit is mainly about boosting trade with India, the issue of regional stability in South Asia dominated a meeting on Sunday that Obama held with students at a college in Mumbai.India is deeply suspicious of neighboring Pakistan as a threat to its security, with memories still fresh of a terrorist shooting rampage in Mumbai in 2008, at the hand of Pakistani militants. Obama "will definitely discuss Pakistan" in the context of regional security and counterterrorism in his speech to the Indian parliament on Monday, a senior administration official said on Sunday. Obama drew criticism on Saturday after he paid tribute to victims of the 2008 Mumbai attacks but made no reference in his remarks to India's traditional foe Pakistan, which New Delhi blames for harboring anti-India militants. Pakistan-based militants killed 166 people in a 60-hour rampage through Mumbai, India's financial hub, gunning down their victims at luxury hotels, a train station and a Jewish centre. India says elements in the Pakistan state were behind the attacks. Indians want a strong statement against Pakistan for fostering militants, but Washington must tread a fine line between appeasing New Delhi and supporting Islamabad, an important U.S. regional ally especially in the Afghanistan war. To the students, Obama said the United States cannot impose peace on India and Pakistan. But he tried to challenge the thinking of the students, defending U.S. support of Pakistan and saying the country that has the biggest stake in Pakistan's stability is India. "So my hope is that over time, trust develops between the two countries, that dialogue begins  and that both countries can prosper," the president said. "That will not happen tomorrow." "It's not always apparent that I'm making progress on that front," the president said. Obama continued his trip by flying to New Delhi later Sunday. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh greeted the president before he continued on to tour the Mughal-era Humayun tomb.He will also visit Indonesia, South Korea and Japan on an Asian tour that will see Washington push to prevent countries unilaterally devaluing currencies to protect their exports, a top theme at the Group of 20 heads of state meet in Seoul next week. Obama's visit to Mumbai and New Delhi, the first legs of a 10-day Asian tour, has been hailed as moving the United States closer to India at a time when Washington is trying to revive a weak economy and gather support to pressure China on its currency. 