The Obama administration's killing of Baitullah Mehsud, "Pakistan's public enemy No. 1 and its most feared militant, responsible for a string of bombings and assassination attempts … was not the first airstrike on Obama's watch, but it marked the first major victory in his war on terrorism, a campaign the administration believes can be waged even more aggressively than its predecessor's," AP says. "Long before he went on the defensive in Washington for his handling of the failed Christmas Day airline bombing, Obama had widened the list of U.S. targets abroad and stepped up the pace of airstrikes." The New York Times on the latest NYT/CBS poll: "At a time of deepening political disaffection and intensified distress about the economy, President Obama enjoys an edge over Republicans in the battle for public support While the president is showing signs of vulnerability on his handling of the economy -- a majority of respondents say he has yet to offer a clear plan for creating jobs -- Americans blame former President George W. Bush, Wall Street and Congress much more than they do Mr. Obama for the nation's economic problems and the budget deficit, the poll found.""They credit Mr. Obama more than Republicans with making an effort at bipartisanship, and they back the White House's policies on a variety of disputed issues, including allowing gay men and lesbians to serve openly in the military and repealing the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy."  The Times also reports that the Senate "confirmed -- by unanimous consent -- more than two dozen of President Obama's nominees to federal positions. Mr. Obama and Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, had warned this week that the president might use the weeklong holiday break to make recess appointments, a threat underscoring his frustration with months of delays in confirming some key nominees."  National Journal's Kirk Victor quotes congressional Democrats who are frustrated that Obama isn't demonstrating more leadership, especially on health care. "When asked whether Senate Democrats are increasingly frustrated with the White House over reforming the nation's health insurance system, Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., did not hesitate. 'Yes,' he said. 'The answer to that is yes. Let me say, [that's the answer from] the moderate Democrats. The president needs to be more engaged.'""Democrats who face tough challenges in the midterm elections, and even senators who are not on the ballot this year, worry that their party has not yet developed a feasible agenda in the wake of their loss of a filibuster-proof Senate majority when Republican Scott Brown won his Massachusetts seat last month. Some say that to regain their mojo, they need more than presidential exhortations. 'He needs to crack the whip on the House and get them to pass the Senate [health] bill and then make modifications, minor modifications, so that we can pass it in the Senate and get it done so we can get on with the economy,' Nelson added, reflecting the widespread view that Congress must pass both health reform and a jobs measure before Election Day or Democrats will suffer at the polls. 'The Senate bill is a good bill and whatever mistakes are there, we have plenty of time to correct them because a lot of portions of the bill don't take effect until 2012.'" 