The AP: “Eager to show some bipartisanship, President Barack Obama is sharing a stage in Florida with Jeb Bush, brother of the former president whose policies Obama blames for sending the nation's economy spiraling into a recession. Obama and Bush, Florida's popular ex-governor, were to speak Friday at Miami Central Senior High School, one of hundreds of low-performing schools across the nation that have received money from the Education Department to help turn the school around. Obama aides said Bush recommended the school as an example of how gains can be made through reform.”Obama and Bush visit a Florida classroom at 3:05 pm ET, and Obama delivers a speech on education at 4:00 pm. Later, he hits two DSCC fundraisers in Miami at 5:35 pm and 7:30 pm.Before he leaves for Florida, Obama meets at the White House with Chicago Mayor-Elect Rahm Emanuel at 10:45 am.Vice President Biden said of the initial meeting with Republicans on the budget and spending cuts: “We had a good meeting, and the conversation will continue,” The Hill reports. More: “Democrats and the White House have talked about being open to making $6 billion in unspecified cuts in a spending bill covering the remainder of fiscal 2011. When added to $41 billion in cuts in a continuing resolution that expires Friday, plus $4 billion in cuts in a two-week stopgap that President Barack Obama signed Wednesday, the Democrats are on board for about $50 billion in reductions from Obama’s fiscal 2011 budget request. But House Republicans are seeking to reduce spending to $100 billion less than Obama’s request, and the $6 billion offer wasn’t striking Republicans as serious. ‘That’ll pay for two months of interest on the stimulus bill,’” said Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell.The Hill’s headline: “Obama, GOP start $50 billion apart.”But there’s this… “Speaker John Boehner  has privately assured President Obama that House Republicans will not attack him if he makes a proposal to reform entitlement spending, according to sources familiar with the offer,” The Hill reports. “Moreover, Boehner has personally promised Obama that he will stand side-by-side with him to weather the strong political backlash expected from any proposal to cut entitlement costs.”Rahm is headed back the White House. But not in any official role. The newly elected Chicago mayor will visit with his old boss, the president of the United States today, The Hill reports. 