"President Obama conceded on Tuesday that his new budget does not do enough to resolve the nation’s long-term fiscal problems, but he counseled patience, suggesting that he would eventually come together with Republicans on a broad deal," the New York Times writes. "The president spoke as Republicans on Capitol Hill accused him of a lack of leadership for not proposing a bolder budget for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. Yet behind the scenes are signs that both parties, for all their public crossfire, are reassessing the politics of deficits."Roll Call adds: “Republicans and Democrats vowed to push forward Tuesday with bipartisan efforts to reach a grand deficit-cutting deal even though President Barack Obama largely ignored the issue in his fiscal 2012 budget. A growing coalition of Senators is working to bring the $4 trillion deficit reduction package proposed by Obama’s fiscal commission to the floor, said Sen. Mark Warner , who is leading the effort with Republican Sens. Saxby Chambliss , Mike Crapo  and Tom Coburn , as well as Budget Chairman Kent Conrad  and Majority Whip Dick Durbin . Many more Senators support the idea. ‘I think you guys are going to be surprised by the number of Senators who are engaged,’ Warner said Tuesday.” The Boston Globe’s Lehigh calls the president’s budget a “punt.” And says this “pretty much describes the American mindset when it comes to our country’s long-term federal budget deficit. Everyone wants it addressed — but in a way that won’t affect their programs or increase their taxes. It would be gratifying to say that President Obama used this week’s budget release to bravely explain that our large fiscal challenges will require widespread sacrifices. Gratifying, but untrue. Obama’s budget was at best a small step toward fiscal realism.” And he adds: “Obama hasn’t spoken a tough budgetary truth to the middle class: They are getting a lot more government than they are paying for, and that’s got to change.”AP’s Raum: “Despite GOP rhetoric, the bulk of the current budget deficit has little to do with Obama's stimulus spending or other Democratic policies. It is basically due to a shortfall in tax revenues because of the recession combined with ‘structural’ deficits — fast-rising costs of Social Security, Medicare and other guaranteed-benefit programs — carried over from previous budgets. And these longer-term issues are not addressed directly — either in Obama's new budget or in various GOP proposals.”“The Obama administration on Tuesday threatened to veto the House GOP's measure funding the federal government,” The Hill writes.The Boston Globe has a humorous front-page photo of President Obama trying to get the Medal of Freedom on the 6-9 Bill Russell.Roll Call interviews Phil Schiliro, the president’s legislative affairs director, who leaves that post. Roll Call describes him as Obama’s “top lobbyist.” “Even on his way out the door, White House Legislative Affairs Director Phil Schiliro still won’t take credit for his role in making the 111th Congress one of the most productive in decades,” Roll Call writes, adding, “Not that he’ll be going far: He’s moving to another office 20 feet away, where next week he’ll begin his less defined job as a senior adviser to Obama. Schiliro said, “The president has some things he wants me to work on; he thinks there are a couple things more to do before I go. So that’s what I’m going to do.” 