These days there are lots of ways to follow the money in national politics. You can easily search contributions to candidates for the House and Senate via a variety of web forms. The Federal Election Commission, which collects and distributes campaign finance data, has provided bulk data and lookups for users for years.But for developers looking to find quick summary information about candidates and committees for their applications, friendly data formats can be hard to find. Version 3 of The Times’s Campaign Finance API aims to start making that process a bit easier.The initial release of the API two years ago focused exclusively on the 2008 presidential race, providing details about the fund-raising activities of the candidates who sought that office. For this new version, we’ve expanded the scope of the data to include candidates for the House and the Senate, along with federal political action committees and electronic filings submitted to the FEC.The candidate and committee data comes from the FEC’s collection of summary files and its new Disclosure Data Catalog. We display what the FEC does so that you can get all the fields that are available in the raw data. The filings are retrieved from the FEC’s electronic filing search page and are refreshed every 15 minutes, but they don’t include Senate candidates or Senate party committees, which continue to file on paper. We’ll be adding support for paper filings soon.For candidates and committees, we provide basic information about each, in addition to some handy references to other resources within the API and outside of it. A candidate detail response, for example, includes not only financial summary information but also URIs for the associated committee and filings from the FEC:Committee detail responses are similarly structured, and both contain URIs for other election cycles dating back to 2000 . Since there are thousands of candidates and committees in each cycle, the API also offers search methods for both — so you don’t have to memorize those catchy FEC-issued identifiers.Since 2001, the FEC has been accepting electronically submitted filings from committees, and there’s a search form for finding those on fec.gov. The API takes those submissions and makes them available on a daily basis, updated every 15 minutes. You also can retrieve any day’s filings since January 1, 2009.In all responses, we’ve added a base URI that forms part of every other Campaign Finance API request, so you can construct additional calls starting with a single response.
